(11:1) ALR, a Book in which its revelations have been made lawgiving,
then detailed, from One who is Wise, Expert.

(11:2) "That you shall serve none other than God. I am to you from Him
a warner and a bearer of good news."

(11:3) "And seek forgiveness from your Lord, then repent to Him; He
will provide you with good provisions to an appointed term. And He
bestows His grace upon those who are of grace." And if they turn away:
"Indeed, I fear for you the retribution of a great day!"

(11:4) "To God is your return, and He is capable of all things."

(11:5) Alas, they have folded their chests to hide from it. Even when
they cover themselves under their garments, He knows what they keep
secret and what they declare. He is Knower of all that is in the
chests.

(11:6) And there is not a creature on the earth but on God is its
provision. And He knows where it dwells and where it hides. All is in
a clear record.

(11:7) He is the One who has created the heavens and the earth in six
days, and His Throne was upon the water; so as to test who from among
you works the best. And when you say: "You will be resurrected after
the death," those who have rejected say: "This is but clear magic!"

(11:8) And if We delay for them the retribution to a near period, they
will say: "What has kept it?" Alas, on the day it comes to them,
nothing will turn it away from them, and they will be surrounded by
that which they used to mock.

(11:9) And if We give man a taste of a mercy from Us, then We withdraw
it from him; he becomes despairing, rejecting.

(11:10) And if We give him the taste of a blessing after hardship has
afflicted him, he says: "Evil has gone from me!" He becomes happy,
boastful.

(11:11) Except for those who are patient and do good works; these will
have a pardon, and a great reward.

(11:12) So perhaps you wish to ignore some of what has been inspired
to you, and you are depressed by it, because they say: "If only a
treasure was sent down with him, or an angel had come with him!" You
are but a warner, and God is Caretaker over all things.

(11:13) Or do they say: "He has invented it!" Say: "Then bring ten
invented chapters like it, and call on whom you can besides God if you
are truthful."

(11:14) So, if they do not respond to you, then know that it has been
sent down with the knowledge of God, and that there is no god except
He. Will you then submit?

(11:15) Whoever wants the worldly life and its adornments, then We
will grant them their works in it, and they will not be short changed
in it.

(11:16) These will have nothing but fire in the Hereafter, and what
they have done will be in vain, and evil is what they have worked.

(11:17) For those who are on a clarity from their Lord, and are
followed by a testimony from Him; and before it was the Book of Moses,
a beacon and a mercy; they will believe in it. And whoever rejects it
from among the Confederates, then the Fire is his meeting place. So do
not be in any doubt about it. It is the truth from your Lord, but most
of the people do not believe.

(11:18) And who is more wicked than he who invents lies about God?
They will be displayed before their Lord, and the witnesses will say:
"These are the ones who have lied about their Lord." Alas, the curse
of God will be upon the wicked.

(11:19) Those who repel others from the path of God and they seek to
twist it; and regarding the Hereafter they are in denial.

(11:20) These are the ones who will not escape on the earth, nor do
they have besides God any allies. The retribution will be doubled for
them. They were not able to hear, nor could they see.

(11:21) They are the ones who have lost their souls, and what they had
invented has abandoned them.

(11:22) There is no doubt, that in the Hereafter they are the greatest
losers.

(11:23) Those who believe and do good works, and are humble towards
their Lord; they are the dwellers of the Paradise, in it they will
remain.

(11:24) The example of the two groups is like the blind and deaf, and
the seer and hearer. Are they the same when compared? Do you not take
heed?

(11:25) And We had sent Noah to his people: "I am to you a clear
warner!"

(11:26) "That you serve none except God. I fear for you the
retribution of a painful day."

(11:27) The leaders who rejected from among his people said: "We do
not see you except as a human being like us, and we see that only the
lowest among our people who have no opinion have followed you. And we
do not see a thing that makes you better than us; in fact, we think
you are liars."

(11:28) He said: "O my people, do you see that should I be upon a
clarity from my Lord, and He has given me a mercy from Himself, that
you may be blinded to it? Shall we compel you to it while in-fact you
hate it?"

(11:29) "And my people, I do not ask you for money, my wage is from
God. Nor will I turn away those who believe, for they will meet their
Lord. But I see that you are a people who are ignorant."

(11:30) "And my people, who will give me victory against God if I turn
them away? Will you not remember!"

(11:31) "Nor do I say to you that I have the treasures of God, nor do
I know the future, nor do I say that I am an angel, nor do I say to
those whom your eyes look down upon that God will not grant them any
good. God is more aware of what is in their souls; in such case I
would be among the wicked."

(11:32) They said: "O Noah, you have argued with us, and continued
arguing with us, so bring us what you promise us if you are of the
truthful ones."

(11:33) He said: "It is God who will bring it to you if He wishes; you
will not have any escape."

(11:34) "And my advice will not benefit you if I wanted to advise you
and God wanted that you should go astray. He is your Lord, and to Him
you will return."

(11:35) Or do they say: "He has invented it?" Say: "If I have invented
it, then I am responsible for my crime, and I am innocent from your
crimes"

(11:36) And it was inspired to Noah: "No more of your people will
believe except those who have already believed. So do not be saddened
by what they have done."

(11:37) "And construct the ship under Our eyes and Our inspiration,
and do not speak to Me regarding those who are wicked. They will be
drowned."

(11:38) And as he was constructing the ship, every time any cluster
from his people passed by, they mocked him. He said: "If you mock us,
then we also mock you as you mock."

(11:39) "You will know to whom the retribution will come to disgrace
him, and upon him will be a lasting punishment."

(11:40) So, when Our command came and the chamber erupted. We said:
"Carry in it a pair from each kind, and your family; except those
against whom the word has been issued; and whoever has believed." But
those who believed with him were few.

(11:41) And he said: "Ride in it, in the name of God shall be its
running and its anchorage. My Lord is Forgiving, Merciful."

(11:42) And while it was running with them in waves like mountains,
Noah called to his son, who was in an isolated place: "My son, ride
with us, and do not be with the rejecters!"

(11:43) He said: "I will take refuge to the mountain which will
protect me from the water." He said: "There is no protection from the
decree of God except for those He has granted mercy." And the wave
came between them, so he was one of those who drowned.

(11:44) And it was said: "O land, swallow your water, and O sky,
cease." And the water was diminished, and the matter concluded. And it
came to rest on the Judi, and it was said: "Away with the wicked
people."

(11:45) And Noah called on his Lord, and he said: "My Lord, my son is
from my family, and your promise is the truth, and you are the Wisest
of all Judges."

(11:46) He said: "O Noah, he is not from your family, he was of an
unrighteous deed, so do not ask what you have no knowledge of. I
advise you not to be of the ignorant."

(11:47) He said: "My Lord, I seek refuge with You from asking You what
I do not have knowledge of. And if You do not forgive me and have
mercy on me, I will be of the losers!"

(11:48) It was said: "O Noah, descend in peace from Us and blessings
upon you and upon nations to come from those with you. And nations
whom We will give enjoyment, then a painful retribution will reach
them from Us."

(11:49) This is from the news of the unseen that We inspire to
you. Neither did you nor your people know this, so be patient; the
ending will be for the righteous.

(11:50) And to 'Aad was sent their brother Hud. He said: "My people,
serve God, you have no god besides Him; you are simply conjecturing."

(11:51) "My people, I do not ask you for any wage, my wage is from the
One who has initiated me. Will you not comprehend?"

(11:52) "And my people, seek forgiveness from your Lord, then repent
to Him; He will send the sky to you abundantly, and He will add might
to your might. So do not turn away as criminals."

(11:53) They said: "O Hud, you have not come to us with any proof, nor
will we leave our gods based on what you say. We will not believe in
you."

(11:54) "All we can say is that perhaps some of our gods have seized
you with evil." He said: "I make God my witness, and all of you
witness, that I am innocent of what you have set up."

(11:55) "Besides Him, so plan against me all of you, then do not give
me respite."

(11:56) "I have placed my trust in God, my Lord and your Lord. There
is not a creature except He will seize it by its forelock. My Lord is
on a straight path."

(11:57) "So, if you turn away, then I have delivered what I have been
sent to you with, and my Lord will bring after you a people who are
not like you; and you cannot harm Him the least. My Lord is Guardian
over all things."

(11:58) And when Our command came, We saved Hud and those who had
believed with him by a mercy from Us, and We saved them from a mighty
retribution.

(11:59) Such was the case of 'Aad. They disregarded the revelations of
their Lord, and they disobeyed His messengers, and they followed the
command of every stubborn tyrant.

(11:60) And they were followed by a curse in this world and on the Day
of Resurrection, for 'Aad rejected their Lord. So away with 'Aad, the
people of Hud.

(11:61) And to Thamud was their brother Saleh. He said: "O my people,
serve God, you have no god besides Him. He has established you from
the earth, and has made you settle in it; so seek His forgiveness,
then repent to Him. My Lord is Near, Responsive."

(11:62) They said: "O Saleh, you were well liked among us before
this. Do you prohibit us from serving what our fathers served? We are
in serious doubt as to what you are inviting us."

(11:63) He said: "O my people, do you see that should I be upon a
clarity from my Lord, and He has given me a mercy from Himself. Who
would then support me against God if I disobey Him? You would only
increase me in loss!"

(11:64) "And O my people, this is the camel of God, in her you have a
sign. So leave her to eat from God's earth freely, and do not harm
her, or else a close retribution will take you."

(11:65) But they slaughtered her. So he said: "Take enjoyment in your
dwellings for three days. This is a promise not to be denied."

(11:66) So, when Our command came, We saved Saleh and those who had
believed with him by a mercy from Us and against the disgrace of that
day. Your Lord is the Powerful, the Noble.

(11:67) And those who had wronged were taken by the scream, thus they
became lifeless in their homes.

(11:68) It is as if they had never lived there. For Thamud rejected
their Lord. So away with Thamud.

(11:69) And Our messengers came to Abraham with good news, they said:
"Peace" He said: "Peace," and he made no delay in bringing a roasted
calf.

(11:70) But when he saw that their hands did not go towards it, he
mistrusted them, and he began to have fear of them. They said: "Have
no fear, we have been sent to the people of Lot."

(11:71) And his wife was standing, so she laughed when We gave her the
good news of Isaac, and after Isaac, Jacob.

(11:72) She said: "O my! Shall I give birth when I am an old woman,
and here is my husband an old man? This is indeed a strange thing!"

(11:73) They said: "Do you wonder at the decree of God? The mercy of
God and blessings are upon you O people of the Sanctuary. He is
Praiseworthy, Glorious."

(11:74) So when the shock left Abraham, and the good news was
delivered to him, he began to argue with Us for the people of Lot.

(11:75) Abraham was compassionate, kind, obedient.

(11:76) "O Abraham, turn away from this. The command of your Lord has
been passed, and a retribution that will not be turned back is coming
for them."

(11:77) And when Our messengers came to Lot, he was grieved by them
and he felt discomfort for them and he said: "This is a distressful
day."

(11:78) And his people came rushing towards him, and before it they
were committing sin, he said: "My people, these are my daughters, they
are purer for you, so be aware of God and do not disgrace me regarding
my guests. Is there no wise man among you?"

(11:79) They said: "You know we have no interest in your daughters,
and you are aware of what we want!"

(11:80) He said: "If only I had strength against you, or I could find
for myself some powerful support."

(11:81) They said: "O Lot, we are messengers of your Lord; they will
not be able to harm you, so travel with your family during the cover
of the night and let not any of you look back except for your wife,
she will be afflicted with what they will be afflicted. Their
scheduled time will be the morning. Is the morning not near?"

(11:82) So when Our command came, We made its highest part become its
lowest, and We rained on it with hardened fiery projectiles.

(11:83) Marked from your Lord, and they are never far from the wicked.

(11:84) And to Midyan was their brother Shu'ayb, he said: "My people,
serve God, you have no god besides Him, and do not give short in the
measure and the weight. I see you in prosperity, and I fear for you
the retribution of a day that is surrounding."

(11:85) "And my people, give full in the measure and the weight
equitably, and do not hold back from the people what is theirs, and do
not roam the land corrupting."

(11:86) "What will remain for you with God is far better if you are
believers. And I am not a guardian over you."

(11:87) They said: "O Shu'ayb, does your contact prayer order you that
we leave what our fathers served, or that we do not do with our money
as we please? It seems only you are the compassionate, the wise!"

(11:88) He said: "O my people, do you see that if I am on clear
evidence from my Lord, and He has provided me with good provision from
Him, then I would not want to contradict by doing what I am
prohibiting you from. I only want to make right what I can, and my
guidance is only with God. To Him I place my trust, and to Him I
repent."

(11:89) "And my people, let not your hatred towards me incriminate you
that you suffer the fate of what afflicted the people of Noah, or the
people of Hud, or the people of Saleh; and the people of Lot were not
far off from you."

(11:90) "And seek forgiveness from your Lord then repent to Him. My
Lord is Merciful, Loving."

(11:91) They said: "O Shu'ayb, we do not understand most of what you
say, and we see you as weak among us; and if it were not for who your
family is, we would have stoned you, and you would not be proud
against us."

(11:92) He said: "My people, is who my family is more important to you
than God, while you have cast Him away behind your backs? My Lord is
encompassing what you do."

(11:93) "And my people, continue to act as you do, and I will act. You
will then come to know to whom the retribution will come to humiliate
him and who is the liar. Watch then, and I will watch with you."

(11:94) And when Our command came, We saved Shu'ayb and those who
believed with him by a mercy from Us; and the scream took those who
had wronged, thus they became lifeless in their homes.

(11:95) It is as if they had never lived there. Away with Midyan as it
was away with Thamud.

(11:96) And We sent Moses with Our signs and a clear authority.

(11:97) To Pharaoh and his commanders; but they followed the order of
Pharaoh; and the order of Pharaoh was not wise.

(11:98) He will be at the head of his people on the Day of
Resurrection, and he will lead them to the Fire. What a miserable
place they will be brought in!

(11:99) And they were followed by a curse in this one, and on the Day
of Resurrection. What a miserable path to follow!

(11:100) That is from the news of the towns which We tell to you; some
are still standing and some have been wiped out.

(11:101) And We had not wronged them, but they had wronged themselves;
their gods that they called on besides God did not rescue them at all
when the command of your Lord came, and they only added to their
destruction.

(11:102) And such is the seizing of your Lord when He seizes the towns
while they are wicked. His taking is painful, severe.

(11:103) In this is a sign for he who fears the retribution of the
Hereafter. That is a Day towards which all the people will be
gathered, and that is a Day which will be witnessed.

(11:104) And We do not delay it except to a term already prepared for.

(11:105) On the Day it comes, no person will speak except with His
permission. Some of them will be distraught, some will be happy.

(11:106) As for those who are distraught, they will be in the Fire; in
it for them is a sighing and a wailing.

(11:107) Abiding therein as long as the heavens and the earth exist,
except for what your Lord wishes. Your Lord does as He pleases.

(11:108) As for those who are happy, they will be in the Paradise;
abiding therein as long as the heavens and the earth exist, except for
what your Lord wishes, a giving without end.

(11:109) So do not be in doubt as to what these people serve. They
serve nothing except what their fathers before them served. We will
give them their recompense in full.

(11:110) And We gave Moses the Book, yet they disputed in it; and had
it not been for a word which was already given by your Lord, their
case would have been judged immediately. They are in grave doubt
concerning it.

(11:111) And to each your Lord will recompense their works. He is
expert in what they do.

(11:112) So stand straight as you were commanded, and those who have
repented with you, and do not transgress. He is Seer over what you do.

(11:113) And do not lean towards those who have wronged else you will
incur the Fire; and you will not have besides God any allies, and you
will not be victorious.

(11:114) And hold the contact prayer at two parts of the day, and the
near part of the night. The good deeds take away the bad. This is a
reminder to those who remember.

(11:115) And be patient, for God does not waste the reward of the good
doers.

(11:116) If only there was from the previous generations a people with
wisdom who prohibited corruption on the earth, except the few that We
saved of them. And those who were wicked followed the enjoyment they
were in, and they were criminal.

(11:117) And your Lord will not destroy the towns unjustly, while its
people are good doers.

(11:118) And if your Lord had wished, He could have made all the
people one nation, but they still would have continued to disagree.

(11:119) Except whom your Lord has mercy upon; and for that He has
created them. And the word of your Lord came true: "I will fill Hell
with the Jinn and the people together!"

(11:120) And We tell to you from the news of the messengers with which
We strengthen your heart. In this has come to you the truth and a
lesson and a reminder for the believers.

(11:121) And say to those who do not believe: "Continue to do what you
will, we will also do."

(11:122) "And wait, for we are also waiting."

(11:123) And to God is the unseen of the heavens and the earth, and to
Him all matters return. So serve Him and put your trust in Him. Your
Lord is not unaware of what you all do.














