(12:1) ALR, these are the signs of the clarifying Book.

(12:2) We have sent it down an Arabic revelation, perhaps you will
comprehend.

(12:3) We tell to you the best stories through what We have inspired
to you in this Qur'an; and before it you were of those who were
unaware.

(12:4) When Joseph said to his father: "My father, I have seen eleven
planets and the sun and the moon, I saw them prostrating to me."

(12:5) He said: "O my son, do not tell your vision to your brothers,
or they will plan against you. The devil is to man a clear enemy."

(12:6) And as such, your Lord has chosen you, and He teaches you the
interpretation of the narrations, and He completes His blessings upon
you and upon the descendants of Jacob, as He completed it for your
fathers before that, Abraham and Isaac. Your Lord is Knowledgeable,
Wise.

(12:7) In Joseph and his brothers are signs for those who seek.

(12:8) For they said: "Joseph and his brother are more loved by our
father than us, while we are a numerous group. Our father is clearly
misguided."

(12:9) "Kill Joseph or cast him in the land, so that the face of your
father will be only for you, and after that you can be an upright
people."

(12:10) One among them said: "Do not kill Joseph, but if you are going
to do a thing, then cast him into the bottom of the well, so that
anyone traveling by will pick him up."

(12:11) They said: "Our father, why do you not trust us with Joseph?
And we will be giving him advice."

(12:12) "Send him with us tomorrow to enjoy himself and play, and we
will take care of him."

(12:13) He said: "It saddens me that you should take him, and I fear
that the wolf will eat him if you will be absent of him."

(12:14) They said: "If the wolf eats him, while we are a numerous
group, then we are the losers."

(12:15) So,when they went with him they had agreed to place him into
the bottom of the well. And We inspired to him: "You will inform them
of this act of theirs while they will not expect it."

(12:16) Andthey came to their father in the evening, crying.

(12:17) They said: "Our father, we went to race and left Joseph by our
things, and the wolf ate him! But you would not believe us even if we
were truthful."

(12:18) Andthey came with his shirt stained in false blood. He said:
"You have invented this tale yourselves. So sweet patience, and God is
sought for help against what you describe."

(12:19) Anda traveling caravan came and they sent their man to draw
water, but when he drew he said: "Good news, there is a boy!" So they
hid him as merchandise. And God is aware of what they did.

(12:20) Andthey sold him for a low price, a few coins of silver, and
they regarded him as insignificant.

(12:21) Andhe from Egypt who had bought him said to his wife: "Make
his stay generous, perhaps he will benefit us or we may take him as a
son." And it was thus that We established Joseph in the land and to
teach him the interpretation of the narrations. And God has full
control over his situation, but most of the people do not know.

(12:22) Andwhen he reached his independence, We gave him judgement and
knowledge. It is thus that We reward the good doers.

(12:23) Andthe woman, in whose house he was staying, attempted to
seduce him away from himself. And she closed the doors and said: "I
have prepared myself for you." He said: "I seek refuge with God, He is
my Lord, He has made good my stay; the wicked do not succeed."

(12:24) Andshe was obsessed with him, and he did obsess with her - had
it not been that he saw the proof of his Lord - it was thus that We
turned evil and immorality away from him; he is of Our loyal servants.

(12:25) Andas they rushed towards the door, she tore his shirt from
behind; and they found her master at the door. She said: "What is the
punishment for he who wanted evil for your family? Is it not that he
be imprisoned or punished painfully?"

(12:26) He said: "She is the one who seduced me from myself," and a
witness from her family gave testimony: "If his shirt was torn from
the front, then she is truthful, and he is the liar."

(12:27) "And if his shirt is torn from behind, then she is lying, and
he is truthful."

(12:28) So when he saw that his shirt was torn from behind, he said:
"This is from your female planning, your female planning is indeed
great!"

(12:29) "Joseph, turn away from this. And you woman, seek forgiveness
for your sin; you were of the wrongdoers."

(12:30) Andsome women in the city said: "The wife of the governor is
trying to seduce her young man from himself; she is taken by love. We
see her clearly misguided."

(12:31) So when she heard of their scheming, she sent for them and
prepared a banquet for them, and she gave each one of them a
knife. And she said: "Come out to them," so when they saw him they
exalted him and cut their hands, and they said: "Praise be to God,
this is not a human being, but a blessed angel!"

(12:32) Shesaid: "This is the one whom you blamed me for, and I have
seduced him from himself but he refused. And if he does not do as I
command him, he will be imprisoned, and he will be one of those
disgraced."

(12:33) He said: "My Lord, prison is better to me than what they are
inviting me to do. And if You do not turn their plans away from me, I
will fall for them and be of the ignorant."

(12:34) So his Lord responded to him, and He turned away their plans
from him. He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(12:35) But it appealed to them, even after they had seen the signs,
to imprison him for a time.

(12:36) Andwith him in the prison entered two young men. One of them
said: "I dreamt that I was pressing alcohol," and the other said: "I
dreamt that I was carrying bread on top of my head, and that the birds
were eating from it." "Tell us its interpretation, for we see that you
are of the good doers."

(12:37) He said: "No provision of food will come to you, except that I
would have informed you both about its interpretation before it comes
to you. That is from what my Lord has taught me. I have just left the
creed of a people who do not believe in God, and they are rejecting
the Hereafter."

(12:38) "And I have followed the creed of my fathers Abraham, and
Isaac, and Jacob. It was not for us to set up partners with God at
all. That is the blessings of God over us and over the people, but
most of the people are not thankful."

(12:39) "Omy fellow inmates, are various lords better, or God, the
One, the Supreme?"

(12:40) "What you serve besides Him are nothing except names which you
have created, both you and your fathers, God has not sent down any
authority for such. The judgment is for none except God. He has
ordered that none be served except He. That is the true system, but
most of the people do not know."

(12:41) "Myfellow inmates, one of you will be serving alcohol for his
lord, while the other will be crucified so that the birds will eat
from his head. The matter which you have sought is now concluded."

(12:42) Andhe said to the one of them whom he thought would be saved:
"Mention me to your lord." But the devil made him forget to mention to
his lord, so he remained in prison for a few years.

(12:43) Andthe king said: "I continue to dream of seven fat cows being
eaten by seven thin ones, and seven green pods and others which are
dry. O you commanders, tell me what my vision means if you are able to
interpret the visions."

(12:44) They said: "It is nothing except bad dreams; and we are not
knowledgeable in the interpretation of dreams."

(12:45) Andthe one of them who had been saved and remembered after all
this time said: "I will tell you of its interpretation, so let me be
sent."

(12:46) "Joseph, O man of truth, explain to us the matter regarding
seven fat cows being eaten by seven thin ones, and seven green pods
and others which are dry? Then perhaps I may go back to the people so
they will know."

(12:47) He said: "You will plant regularly for seven years, and
whatever you harvest you must leave it in its pods, except for the
little that you will eat."

(12:48) "Then there will come seven after that which are severe and
which will consume all that you plant except for what you have
stored."

(12:49) "Then after that will come a year in which the people will
have abundant rain and which they will be able to produce once again."

(12:50) Andthe king said: "Bring him to me." So when the messenger
came to him, he said: "Go back to your lord and ask him what was the
matter regarding the women who cut their hands? Indeed, my Lord is
aware of their plans."

(12:51) He said: "What is your plea that you tried to seduce Joseph
from himself?" They said: "God be sought! We know of no evil on his
part." The wife of the governor said: "Now the truth must be known, I
did seek to seduce Joseph from himself and he is of the truthful
ones."

(12:52) "That is so he knows that I will not betray him while he is
not present and that God does not guide the planning of the
betrayers."

(12:53) "And I do not make myself free of blame, for the soul is
inclined to sin, except that which my Lord has mercy upon. My Lord is
Forgiving, Merciful."

(12:54) Andthe king said: "Bring him to me so that I may employ him to
my person." So when he spoke to him, he said: "Today you are with us
in a high standing and trusted."

(12:55) He said: "Appoint me over the granaries of the land, for I
know how to keep records and I am knowledgeable."

(12:56) Andit was such that We gave Joseph authority in the land, to
travel in it as he pleases. We bestow Our mercy upon whom We please,
and We do not waste the reward of the good doers.

(12:57) Andthe reward of the Hereafter is better for those who believe
and are aware.

(12:58) Andthe brothers of Joseph came and entered upon him, and he
recognized them, but they did not recognize him.

(12:59) So,when he furnished them with their provisions, he said:
"Bring me a brother of yours who is from your father. Do you not see
that I give full measure of grain and that I am the best of hosts?"

(12:60) "But if you do not bring him to me, then there shall be no
measure of grain for you with me, and do not come near me."

(12:61) They said: "We will try to get him away from his father, and
we shall be successful."

(12:62) Andhe said to his servants: "Return their goods into their
saddlebags, so that they may recognize it when they return to their
family so that they may come back."

(12:63) So when they returned to their father, they said: "Our father,
we have been banned from getting anymore measure of grain, so send our
brother with us so we may be given a measure of grain, and we will be
his guardians."

(12:64) He said: "Shall I trust him with you as I trusted you with
Joseph before that? God is the best guardian, and He is the Most
Merciful of those who show mercy."

(12:65) So when they opened their baggage, they found their goods had
been returned to them, and they said: "Our father, what more can we
desire, these are our goods returned to us, so we can get more for our
family, and be guardians over our brother, and increase a measure of
grain to load a camel. That is truly an easy measure!"

(12:66) He said: "I will not send him with you until you come to me
with a covenant to God that you will bring him back unless you are
completely overtaken." So when they brought him their covenant, he
said: "God is placed in trust over what we say."

(12:67) Andhe said: "My sons, do not enter from one gate, but enter
from separate gates; and I cannot avail you anything against God, for
the judgment is to God. In Him I place my trust, and in Him those who
place their trust should trust."

(12:68) Andwhen they entered from where their father had commanded
them, it would not have availed them in the least against God, but it
was out of a concern in the soul of Jacob that he brought out. And he
is with knowledge for what We taught him, but most of the people do
not know.

(12:69) Andwhen they entered upon Joseph, he called his brother to
himself and said: "I am your brother, so do not be saddened by what
they have done."

(12:70) So when he furnished them with their provisions, he placed the
measuring bowl in the saddlebag of his brother, then a caller cried
out: "O you in the caravan, you are thieves!"

(12:71) They said, while coming towards them: "What is it you are
missing?"

(12:72) They said: "We are missing the measuring bowl of the king, and
whoever can produce it, will be given the load of a camel; and I will
be bound by this."

(12:73) They said: "By God, you know we have not come to cause
corruption in the land, and we are not thieves!"

(12:74) They said: "What shall be the punishment, if you are not
truthful?"

(12:75) They said: "The punishment is that he in whose saddlebag it is
found will himself serve as the punishment. It is so that we punish
the wicked."

(12:76) So he began with their bags before the bag of his
brother. Then he brought it out of the bag of his brother. It was such
that We planned for Joseph, for he would not have been able to take
his brother under the system of the king, except that God wished it
so. We raise the degrees of whom We please, and over every one of
knowledge is the All Knowledgeable.

(12:77) They said: "If he has stolen, there was a brother of his
before who also had stolen." Joseph kept this all inside himself, and
did not reveal anything to them. He said: "You are in an awkward
position, and God best knows what you describe."

(12:78) They said: "O governor, he has an elderly father, so take one
of us in his place. Indeed we see you as one of the good doers."

(12:79) He said: "Refuge is sought with God that we would take anyone
except he whom we found our belongings with. Indeed, we would then be
wrong doers."

(12:80) So when they gave-up from him, they held a conference in
private. The eldest of them said: "Did you not know that your father
has taken a covenant over you with God, and before this you also
failed in your duty with Joseph? I will not leave this land until my
father permits me to do so or that God will judge for me. He is the
best of judges."

(12:81) "Return to your father, and tell him: "Our father, your son
has stolen, and we did not witness except what we learned, and we
could not know the unseen!"

(12:82) "And ask the people of the town which we were in, and the
caravan which we have returned with. We are being truthful."

(12:83) He said: "No, for it is your own souls that have conspired you
to this. So patience is most fitting, perhaps God will bring them all
to me. He is the Knowledgeable, the Wise."

(12:84) Andhe turned away from them and said: "Oh, my sorrow over
Joseph." And his eyes turned white from sadness, and he became blind.

(12:85) They said: "By God, you will never cease to remember Joseph
until you become senile or become dead!"

(12:86) He said: "I merely complain my grief and sorrow to God, and I
know from God what you do not know."

(12:87) "Mysons, go and inquire about Joseph and his brother, and do
not despair from the spirit of God. The only ones who would despair
from the spirit of God are the people who are rejecters."

(12:88) So when they entered upon him, they said: "O governor, we have
been afflicted with harm, us and our family, and we have come with
poor goods to trade, so give us a measure of grain, and be charitable
towards us, for God rewards the charitable."

(12:89) He said: "Do you know what you have done with Joseph and his
brother, while you were ignorant?"

(12:90) They said: "Are you indeed Joseph?" He said: "I am Joseph, and
this is my brother. God has been gracious to us. For anyone who
reverences and is patient, God will not waste the reward of the good
doers."

(12:91) They said: "By God, God has indeed preferred you over us and
we have been wrongdoers."

(12:92) He said: "There is no blame on you this day, may God forgive
you, and He is the Most Merciful of those who show mercy."

(12:93) "Take this shirt of mine and cast it over the face of my
father, and he will have sight; and bring to me all your family."

(12:94) Andwhen the caravan departed, their father said: "I do indeed
feel the scent of Joseph, except that you may think me senile."

(12:95) They said: "By God, you are back to your old misguidance."

(12:96) Then, when the bearer of good news came, he cast it over his
face and he regained sight. He said: "Did I not tell you that I know
from God what you do not know?"

(12:97) They said: "Our father, ask forgiveness for our sins, indeed
we were wrongdoers."

(12:98) He said: "I will ask forgiveness for you from my Lord, He is
the Forgiving, the Merciful."

(12:99) So when they entered upon Joseph, he took his parents to him
and he said: "Enter Egypt, God willing, in security."

(12:100) And he raised his parents upon the throne, and they fell in
prostration to Him. And he said: "My father, this is the
interpretation of my vision from before. My Lord has made it true, and
He has been good to me that he took me out of prison and brought you
out of the wilderness after the devil had made bitterness between me
and my brothers. My Lord is Kind to whom He wills. He is the
Knowledgeable, the Wise."

(12:101) "My Lord, You have given me sovereignty and taught me the
interpretation of the narrations. Initiator of the heavens and the
earth, You are my protector in this world and the Hereafter. Let me
die as one who has submitted, and join me with the good doers."

(12:102) Thatis from the news of the unseen that We inspire to
you. You were not among them when they arranged their plan and were
scheming.

(12:103) And most of the people, even if you are diligent, will not
believe.

(12:104) And you are not asking them for any wage, it is but a
reminder to the worlds.

(12:105) And how many a sign in the heavens and the earth do they pass
by, while they are turning away from it.

(12:106) And most of them will not believe in God except while setting
up partners.

(12:107) Are they secure against the coming of an enveloping
retribution from God, or that the Hour will come to them suddenly
while they do not perceive?

(12:108) Say:"This is my way, I invite to God in full disclosure,
myself and whoever follows me. And glory be to God; and I am not of
the polytheists."

(12:109) And We have not sent before you except men, to whom We gave
inspiration, from the people of the towns. Will they not roam the
earth and see how was the punishment of those before them? And the
abode of the Hereafter is far better for those who are aware. Do you
not comprehend?

(12:110) Then, when the messengers gave up, and they thought that they
have been denied, Our victory came to them. We then save whom We wish,
and Our punishment cannot be swayed from the wicked people.

(12:111) In their stories is a lesson for those who possess
intelligence. It is not a narration that has been invented, but an
authentication of what is between his hands and a detailing of all
things, and a guidance and a mercy for a people who believe.














