(14:1) ALR, a Book which We have sent down to you so that you may
bring the people out of the darkness and into the light with the
permission of their Lord, to the path of the Noble, the Praiseworthy.

(14:2) God, to whom belong all that is in the heavens and the
earth. And woe to the rejecters from a severe retribution.

(14:3) The ones who have preferred the worldly life over the
Hereafter, and they repel from the path of God, and they seek to make
it crooked. Those are the ones who are in misguidance.

(14:4) And We have not sent any messenger except in the language of
his people, so he may clarify for them. But God misguides whom He
wills, and He guides whom He wills. And He is the Noble, the Wise.

(14:5) And We sent Moses with Our signs: "You shall bring your people
out of the darkness and into the light, and remind them of the days of
God." In this are signs for everyone patient and thankful.

(14:6) And Moses said to his people: "Remember the blessings of God
upon you that He saved you from the people of Pharaoh; they were
afflicting you with the worst punishment, and they used to slaughter
your children, and rape your women. And in that was a great test from
your Lord."

(14:7) And your Lord proclaimed: "If you give thanks, I will increase
for you, but if you are rejecting, then My retribution is severe."

(14:8) And Moses said: "If you reject, you and all who are on the
earth together, then know that God is Rich, Praiseworthy."

(14:9) Did not news come to you of those before you: the people of
Noah, and 'Aad, and Thamud, and those after them whom none know except
God? Their messengers came to them with clarity, but they placed their
hands onto their mouths and said: "We are rejecting what you have been
sent with, and we are in doubt as to what you are inviting us to."

(14:10) Their messengers said: "Is there doubt regarding God, the
initiator of the heavens and the earth? He invites you so that He may
forgive some of your sins, and delay you to an appointed term." They
said: "You are merely human beings like us; you wish to turn us away
from what our fathers used to serve. So come to us with a clear
proof."

(14:11) Their messengers said: "We are indeed human beings like you,
but God will bestow His grace upon whom He pleases from His
servants. And it is not up to us to bring you proof except with the
permission of God. And in God the believers should place their trust"

(14:12) "And why should we not place our trust in God, when He has
guided us in our paths. And we will be patient to the harm you inflict
upon us. And in God those who trust should place their trust."

(14:13) Andthose who rejected said to their messengers: "We will expel
you from our land, or you will return to our creed." It was then that
their Lord inspired to them: "We will destroy the wicked."

(14:14) "And We will let you reside in the land after them. That is
for those who fear My station and fear My warning."

(14:15) Andthey sought victory, and every arrogant tyrant was then
made to lose.

(14:16) From behind him is Hell, and he will be poured from a putrid
water.

(14:17) He tries to drink it, but it cannot be swallowed, and death
comes to him from everywhere, but he will not die; and from behind him
is a powerful retribution.

(14:18) Theexample of those who reject their Lord is that their works
are like ashes, upon which the wind blows strongly on a stormy day,
they cannot get anything of what they earned. Such is the farthest
misguidance.

(14:19) Didyou not see that God created the heavens and the earth with
the truth? If He wished, He would remove you and bring a new creation.

(14:20) Andthat for God is not difficult to do.

(14:21) Andthey appeared before God, all of them. And the weak ones
said to those who were arrogant: "We were following you, so will you
avail us anything from the retribution of God?" They said: "If God had
guided us, then we would have guided you. It makes no difference if we
cry out or are patient, for we have no refuge."

(14:22) Andthe devil said when the matter was complete: "God had
promised you the promise of truth, and I promised you and broke my
promise. And I had no power over you except that I invited you and you
responded to me. So do not blame me, but blame yourselves; I cannot
help you nor can you help me. I reject that you have set me up as a
partner before this; the wicked will have a painful retribution."

(14:23) Andthose who believed and did good works were admitted to
estates with rivers flowing beneath them. In them they will abide with
the permission of their Lord. Their greeting therein is "Peace."

(14:24) Have you not seen how God puts forth the example that a good
word is like a good tree, whose root is firm and whose branches are in
the sky.

(14:25) It bears its fruit every so often with the permission of its
Lord; and God puts forth the examples for the people, perhaps they
will remember.

(14:26) Andthe example of a bad word is like a tree which has been
uprooted from the surface of the earth, it has nowhere to settle.

(14:27) Godmakes firm those who believe with firm sayings in the
worldly life, and in the Hereafter. And God misguides the wicked, and
God does what He wishes.

(14:28) Didyou not see those who replaced the blessings of God with
rejection, and they caused their people to dwell in the abode of
destruction?

(14:29) Hell is where they will burn, what a miserable place to
settle.

(14:30) Andthey made to God equals in order that they may misguide
from His path. Say: "Enjoy, for your destiny is to the Fire."

(14:31) Sayto My servants who believe, that they should hold the
contact prayer, and spend from what provisions We granted them
secretly and openly, before a Day comes when there is no trade
therein, nor will there be any friends.

(14:32) Godis the One who has created the heavens and the earth, and
He has sent down water from the sky thus bringing out with it fruits
as provisions for you, and He has commissioned for you the ships to
run in the sea by His command, and He has commissioned for you the
rivers.

(14:33) AndHe has commissioned for you the sun and the moon, in
continuity; and He has commissioned for you the night and the day.

(14:34) AndHe has given you from all that you have asked Him. And if
you count the blessings of God, you will not be able to number
them. Man is indeed transgressing, disbelieving.

(14:35) AndAbraham said: "My Lord, make this a land of peace, and keep
me and my sons away from serving statues."

(14:36) "MyLord, they have misguided many from among the people. So,
whoever follows me, then he is of me, and whoever disobeys me, then
You are Forgiving, Merciful."

(14:37) "OurLord, I have resided part of my progeny in a barren valley
near your Restricted Sanctuary. Our Lord, that they may hold the
contact prayer, so let the hearts of the people incline towards them
and give provisions to them of the fruits that they may give thanks."

(14:38) "Our Lord, you know what we hide and what we declare. And
nothing at all is hidden from God on the earth or in the heavens."

(14:39) "Praise be to God who has granted me to my old age Ishmael and
Isaac; my Lord is Hearer of the prayer."

(14:40) "MyLord, let me hold the contact prayer, and also from my
progeny. Our Lord, and accept my prayer."

(14:41) "Our Lord, forgive me and my parents, and the believers on the
Day the judgment is called."

(14:42) Anddo not think that God is unaware of what the wicked do. He
is merely delaying them to a Day when all eyes are watching.

(14:43) They will approach with their heads bowed, and their eyes will
not blink, and their hearts will be void.

(14:44) Andwarn the people of the Day when the retribution will come
to them, and those who have been wicked will say: "Our Lord, delay
this for us until a short time, and we will heed your call and follow
the messengers!" Did you not swear before this that you would last
forever?

(14:45) Andyou resided in the dwellings of those who had wronged
themselves, and it was made clear to you what We did to them; and We
had put forth the examples for you.

(14:46) Andthey schemed their scheming, and their scheming is known to
God; and their scheming was enough to make the mountains cease to
exist.

(14:47) So do not think that God will fail to keep His promise to His
messengers. God is Noble, capable of seeking revenge.

(14:48) TheDay the earth is replaced with another earth, as are the
heavens, and they will appear before God, the One, the Supreme.

(14:49) Andyou will see the criminals that Day bound together in
fetters.

(14:50) Their clothes will be of tar, and the fire will overwhelm
their faces.

(14:51) Thus God will recompense every soul for what it had
earned. God is swift to reckoning.

(14:52) This is a proclamation for the people and so that they are
warned with it, and so that they know that there is but One god, and
so that those who possess intelligence will remember.














