(15:1) ALR, these are the signs of the Book, and a clear Qur'an.

(15:2) Ultimately, those who have rejected will wish they had
submitted!

(15:3) Leave them to eat and enjoy, and let them be preoccupied with
wishful thinking. They will come to know.

(15:4) Wehave not destroyed any town except that it had an appointed
time.

(15:5) Nonation can quicken its fate, nor can they delay it.

(15:6) And they said: "O you upon whom the Reminder has been sent
down, you are crazy."

(15:7) "Why not bring us the angels if you are of the truthful ones?"

(15:8) Wedo not send down the angels except with the truth, and then
they would have no more delay.

(15:9) Indeed it is Wewho have sent down the Reminder, and indeed it
is We who will preserve it.

(15:10) AndWe had sent before you, among the groups of old.

(15:11) And no messenger would come to them, except that they would
mock him.

(15:12) It is such that We let it seep into the hearts of the
criminals.

(15:13) They do not believe in it, while the way of the earlier
generations has gone before.

(15:14) Andif We opened for them a gate in the heaven and they were to
continue ascending into it,

(15:15) They would have said: "Our sight has been fogged. No, we are a
people being bewitched!"

(15:16) AndWe have placed towers in the heaven and We have made them
pleasant to the onlookers.

(15:17) AndWe have guarded it from every outcast devil.

(15:18) Except he who manages to eavesdrop, he will be pursued by a
visible flame.

(15:19) Andthe land We have stretched, and placed stabilizers in it,
and We have planted in it from everything in balance.

(15:20) AndWe have made for you in it a habitat, and for those to whom
you are not providers.

(15:21) Andthere is not a thing, except that We have vaults of it, and
We do not send it down except in a precise measure.

(15:22) AndWe send the winds to pollinate, so We send down water from
the sky, so We give to you to drink; and it is not you who are its
storers.

(15:23) Andit is indeed We who bring to life and make to die, and We
are the inheritors.

(15:24) AndWe know those who have advanced among you, and We know
those who have lagged.

(15:25) Andit is your Lord who will gather them. He is Wise,
Knowledgeable.

(15:26) AndWe have created man from a sludge from hot sediment.

(15:27) Andthe Jinn, We created him before that from the fire of the
fierce hot winds.

(15:28) Andyour Lord said to the angels: "I am creating a human being
from a sludge from hot sediment."

(15:29) "Sowhen I evolve him, and blow from My Spirit in him, you
shall yield to him."

(15:30) Thus, all of the angels yielded.

(15:31) Except for Satan, he refused to be of those who yielded.

(15:32) He said: "O Satan, what is the matter that you are not of
those who yielded?"

(15:33) He said: "I am not to yield to a human being whom You have
created from a sludge from hot sediment."

(15:34) He said: "Exit from here, you are cast out."

(15:35) "And a curse shall be upon you until the Day of Recompense."

(15:36) He said: "My Lord, respite me until the Day they are
resurrected."

(15:37) He said: "You are given respite."

(15:38) "Until the Day of the time appointed."

(15:39) He said: "My Lord, for that by which You have caused me to be
misled, I will beautify for them what is on the earth, and I will
mislead them all."

(15:40) "Except Your servants from among them, the devoted ones."

(15:41) He said: "This shall be a straight path to Me."

(15:42) "For My servants, you shall have no authority over them,
except those who are misled and follow you."

(15:43) "And that Hell shall be their appointment, all of them."

(15:44) "Ithas seven gates, for every gate will be an assigned segment
from them."

(15:45) Therighteous will be in gardens and springs.

(15:46) "Enter it in peace and security."

(15:47) AndWe removed what animosity was in their chests, they are
brothers in quarters facing one another.

(15:48) No fatigue shall touch them, nor will they be evicted from it.

(15:49) Inform My servants that I am the Forgiver, the Merciful.

(15:50) Andthat My punishment is a painful retribution.

(15:51) Andinform them of the guests of Abraham.

(15:52) When they entered upon him, they said: "Peace." He said: "We
are worrisome of you."

(15:53) They said: "Do not worry, we bring you good news of a
knowledgeable son."

(15:54) He said: "What good news can you bring me when old age has
come upon me? Is that your good news?"

(15:55) They said: "We have brought you good news with the truth, so
do not be of those in denial."

(15:56) He said: "And who would deny the mercy of his Lord except the
misguided ones!"

(15:57) He said: "What then is your affair, O messengers?"

(15:58) They said: "We have been sent to a people who are criminals."

(15:59) "Except for the family of Lot, we will save them all."

(15:60) "Except for his wife, we have evaluated that she will be with
those destroyed."

(15:61) So when the messengers came to the family of Lot.

(15:62) He said: "You are an unknown people."

(15:63) They said: "Alas, we have come to you with that which they are
doubting."

(15:64) "And we have come to you with the truth, and we are
forthcoming."

(15:65) "Solet your family leave during the late hours of the night,
and you follow just behind them, and do not let any of you look back,
and go to where you are commanded."

(15:66) AndWe made the matter known to him, that the remainder of
these people would be wiped out by the morning.

(15:67) Andthe people of the city came seeking good news.

(15:68) He said: "These are my guests, so do not embarrass me!"

(15:69) "And be aware of God, and do not disgrace me!"

(15:70) They said: "Did we not prohibit you from the world?"

(15:71) He said: "Here are my daughters if it is your intention."

(15:72) By your life, they are in their intoxication, blundering.

(15:73) So the scream took them at sunrise.

(15:74) Thus We made its highest part become its lowest, and We rained
upon them fiery projectiles.

(15:75) In this are signs for those who see.

(15:76) Andit was on an established path.

(15:77) In that is a sign for the believers.

(15:78) Andthe people of the Sycamore were wicked.

(15:79) So,We sought revenge from them. And they are in a clear
ledger.

(15:80) Andthe dwellers of the enclosure disbelieved the messengers.

(15:81) AndWe gave them Our signs, but they turned away from them.

(15:82) Andthey used to carve from the mountains homes, to be secure.

(15:83) So the scream took them in the morning.

(15:84) What benefit did what they earn make for them?

(15:85) AndWe have not created the heavens and the earth and what is
in between except with the truth. And the Hour is coming, so overlook
their faults gracefully.

(15:86) Your Lord is the Creator, the Knower.

(15:87) And We have given you seven of the pairs, and the great
Qur'an.

(15:88) Do not linger with your eyes on what We have bestowed upon
some couples from them, and do not grieve for them, and lower your
wing for the believers.

(15:89) Andsay: "I am the clarifying warner."

(15:90) As for the dividers in what We sent down.

(15:91) Theones who have made the Qur'an partial.

(15:92) By your Lord, We will ask them all.

(15:93) Regarding what they used to do.

(15:94) So proclaim what you have been commanded and turn away from
the polytheists.

(15:95) We will relieve you from those who mocked.

(15:96) Those who place with God another god. They will come to know.

(15:97) AndWe know that your chest is strained by what they say.

(15:98) So glorify the praiseof your Lord, and be of those who
prostrate.

(15:99) Andserve your Lord until certainty comes to you.














