(16:1) The command of God will come, so do not hasten it. Be He
glorified and exalted above the partners they set up.

(16:2) He sends down the angels with the Spirit by His command upon
whom He wishes of His servants: "That you shall warn that there is no
god except I, so be aware of Me."

(16:3) He has created the heavens and the earth with the truth. Be He
exalted above the partners they set up.

(16:4) He has created man from a seed, but then he becomes clearly in
opposition.

(16:5) And the livestock He has created them for you, in them is
warmth and benefits, and from them you eat.

(16:6) And for you in them is beauty, when you relax and when you
travel.

(16:7) And they carry your loads to a land that you would not have
been able to reach except with great strain. Your Lord is
Compassionate, Merciful.

(16:8) And the horses and the mules and the donkeys, that you may ride
them and as an adornment; and He creates what you do not know.

(16:9) And upon God the path is sought; and from it are
deviations. And if He had wished, He could have guided you all.

(16:10) He is the One who has sent down water from the sky for you,
from it you drink, and from it are woods in which you pasture.

(16:11) He brings forth with it the vegetation and the olives and the
palm trees and the grapes, and of all the fruits; in that are signs
for a people who think.

(16:12) And He has commissioned for you the night and the day, and the
sun and the moon, and the stars are commissioned by His command. In
that are signs for a people who comprehend.

(16:13) And what He has placed for you on the earth in various
colors.In that are signs for a people who remember.

(16:14) And He is the One who has commissioned the sea, that you may
eat from it a tender meat, and that you may extract from it pearls
that you wear. And you see the ships flowing through it, so that you
may seek from His bounty, and that you may be thankful.

(16:15) And He has cast onto the earth stabilizers so that it would
not tumble with you, and rivers, and paths, perhaps you will be
guided.

(16:16) And landmarks, and by the star they are guided.

(16:17) Is He who creates the same he who does not create? Will you
not remember?

(16:18) And if you count the blessings of God, you will not be able to
number them. God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(16:19) And God knows what you conceal and what you reveal.

(16:20) As for those they call on besides God, they do not create a
thing, but are themselves created!

(16:21) They are dead, not alive, and they do not perceive when they
will be resurrected.

(16:22) Your god is One god. Those who do not believe in the
Hereafter, their hearts are denying, and they are arrogant.

(16:23) Certainly, God knows what they hide and what they reveal. He
does not like the arrogant.

(16:24) And if they are told: "What has your Lord sent down?" They
say: "Fictional tales of old!"

(16:25) They will carry their burdens in full on the Day of
Resurrection, and also from the burdens of those whom they misguided
without knowledge. Evil indeed is what they bear.

(16:26) Those before them had schemed, so God came to their buildings
from the foundation, thus the roof fell on top of them; and the
retribution came to them from where they did not know.

(16:27) Then, on the Day of Resurrection He will humiliate them, and
say: "Where are My partners regarding whom you used to dispute?" Those
who have received the knowledge said: "The humiliation today and the
misery are upon the rejecters."

(16:28) Those whom their lives are terminated by the angels, while
they had wronged themselves: "Amnesty, we have not done any evil!"
"Alas, God is aware of what you have done."

(16:29) "So enter the gates of Hell, in it you shall reside; such is
the abode of the arrogant."

(16:30) And it was said to those who were righteous: "What has your
Lord sent down?" They said: "All goodness." For those who have done
good in this world there is good; and the Hereafter is
goodness. Excellent indeed is the home of the righteous.

(16:31) Gardens of delight; which they will enter, with rivers flowing
beneath them, in it they will have what they wish. It is such that God
rewards the righteous.

(16:32) Those whom their lives are terminated by the angels, while
they had been good, they will say: "Peace be upon you, enter the
Paradise because of that which you have done."

(16:33) Are they waiting for the angels to come for them, or a command
from your Lord? It was exactly the same as what those before them
did. God did not wrong them, but it was their own souls that they
wronged.

(16:34) Thus is was, that the evil of their work has afflicted them,
and they will be surrounded by that which they used to mock.

(16:35) And those who were polytheists said: "If God had wished, we
would not have served a thing other than Him; neither us nor our
fathers; nor would we have made unlawful anything other than from
Him." Those before them did exactly the same thing; so are the
messengers required to do anything except deliver with clarity?

(16:36) And We have sent a messenger to every nation: "You shall serve
God and avoid evil." Some of them were guided by God, and some of them
deserved to be misguided. So travel the earth, and see how the
punishment was of those who denied.

(16:37) If you are concerned for their guidance, God does not guide
whom He misguides; and they will have no supporters.

(16:38) And they swore by God, in their strongest oaths, that God will
not resurrect he who dies. No, it is a promise of truth upon Him, but
most of the people do not know.

(16:39) So that He will clarify for them that in which they have
disputed, and so that those who have rejected will know that they were
liars.

(16:40) Indeed, Our saying to a thing, if We wanted it, is that We say
to it: 'Be,' and it is.

(16:41) And those who have emigrated for God, after they were
oppressed, We will grant them good in the world, and the reward of the
Hereafter will be greater, if only they knew.

(16:42) Those who are patient, and put their trust in their Lord.

(16:43) And We did not send any except men before you whom We
inspired, so ask the people who have received the Reminder if you do
not know.

(16:44) With proofs and the scriptures. And We sent down to you the
Reminder to reveal to the people what was sent to them, and perhaps
they will think.

(16:45) Have those who schemed evil guaranteed that God will not make
the earth swallow them, or the retribution come to them from where
they do not expect?

(16:46) Or that He will take them in their sleep? For they cannot stop
it.

(16:47) Or that He will take them while they are in a state of fear?
Your Lord is Compassionate, Merciful.

(16:48) Have they not seen that what God has created of a thing, its
shadow inclines to the right and the left in prostration to God; and
they are humbled!

(16:49) And to God prostrate all those in the heavens and all those on
the earth, from the creatures and the angels, and they are not
arrogant.

(16:50) They fear their Lord from above them, and they do what they
are commanded.

(16:51) And God said: "Do not take two gods, there is only One god, so
it is Me that you shall reverence."

(16:52) And to Him is what is in the heavens and the earth, and the
system shall be to Him. Is it other than God that you shall be aware
of?

(16:53) And any blessing that is with you is from God. Then, when harm
afflicts you, to Him you cry out.

(16:54) Then, when He removes the harm from you, a group of you set up
partners with their Lord!

(16:55) So they reject what We have given them. Enjoy, for you will
come to know.

(16:56) And they allocate a portion from what We provide for them to
that which they have no knowledge of. By God, you will be asked about
the lies you have invented!

(16:57) And they assign daughters to God; be He glorified; and to them
is what they desire.

(16:58) And when one of them is given news of a female, his face
becomes darkened and he is in grief!

(16:59) He hides from his people because of the bad news he has
received. Shall he keep her with dishonor, or bury her in the sand?
Miserable indeed is how they judge!

(16:60) To those who do not believe in the Hereafter is the worst
example, and to God is the highest example, and He is the Noble, the
Wise.

(16:61) And if God were to call the people to account for their
transgression, He would not have left on it a single creature. But He
delays them to a determined time; so when their time comes, they do
not delay by one hour and they do not advance.

(16:62) And they assign to God what they hate, and their tongues
describe with lies that they will have what is good. No doubt they
will have the Fire, for they have rebelled.

(16:63) By God, We had sent to nations before you, but the devil
adorned their work for them. So he is their ally today, and they will
have a painful retribution.

(16:64) And We have not sent down the Book to you except that you may
clarify for them that in which they have disputed, and as a guidance
and a mercy for a people who believe.

(16:65) And God has sent down water from the sky, so He revives the
land with it after its death. In that is a sign for a people who
listen.

(16:66) And for you there is a lesson in the livestock; We give you to
drink from what is in its belly between the digested food and the
blood, a pure milk which is relieving for the drinkers.

(16:67) And from the fruits of the palm trees and the grapes you make
strong drink and a good provision. In that is a sign for a people who
comprehend.

(16:68) And your Lord inspired to the bees: "You shall take homes of
the mountains and of the trees and of what they erect."

(16:69) "Then you shall eat from every fruit, so seek the path your
Lord has made easy." From its belly will emerge a liquid that has
different colors, in it is a healing for the people. In that is a sign
for a people who will think.

(16:70) And God has created you, then He will terminate your
lives. And some of you will continue to old age so that he will not
know anything more after his knowledge. God is Knowledgeable, Capable.

(16:71) And God has preferred some of you over others in
provision. Yet, those who have been preferred will not relinquish
their provision to those who are maintained by their oaths, that they
may become equal in it. Is it the favor of God that they deny?

(16:72) And God has made for you mates from among yourselves, and He
has made from your mates sons and grandchildren, and He has provided
you from the good provisions. Is it the falsehood that they believe
in,while the favor of God they reject?

(16:73) And they serve besides God that which does not and cannot
possess anything of the provisions from the heaven or the earth.

(16:74) So do not give examples to God. God knows while you do not
know.

(16:75) God puts forth the example of a slave who is owned and cannot
achieve anything, against one whom We have provided a good provision
which he spends of it secretly and openly. Are they the same? Praise
be to God, but most of them do not know.

(16:76) And God puts forth the example of two men, one of them is mute
and he cannot achieve anything, and he is a burden to his
guardian. Wherever he points him, he does not come with any good. Is
he the same as one who orders good and he is upon a straight path?

(16:77) And to God is the unseen of the heavens and the earth, and the
matter of the Hour is like the blink of the eye or nearer. God is
capable of all things.

(16:78) And God brought you out of the wombs of your mothers while you
knew nothing. And He has made for you the hearing and the eyesight and
the heart, perhaps you would be thankful.

(16:79) Have they not looked at the birds held in the atmosphere of
the sky? No one holds them up except God. In that are signs for a
people who believe.

(16:80) And God has made your homes a habitat, and He has made for you
from the hides of the livestock homes which you find light when you
travel and when you camp; and from its wool, fur, and hair you make
furnishings and goods, until a time.

(16:81) And God has made for you shade from what He has created, and
He has made from the mountains a refuge for you, and He has made for
you garments which protect you from the heat, and garments which
protect you from attack. It is such that He completes His blessings
upon you, that perhaps you may submit.

(16:82) So if they turn away, then you are only required to deliver
clearly.

(16:83) They recognize the blessings of God, then they deny them. And
most of them are rejecters.

(16:84) And the Day We send from every nation a witness, then those
who have rejected will not be given leave, nor will they be allowed to
repent.

(16:85) And then those who were wicked will see the retribution; it
will not be lightened for them, nor will they be given respite.

(16:86) And when those who were polytheists saw their partners, they
said: "Our Lord, these are our partners that we used to call upon
besides You." But they returned in answer to them: "You are liars!"

(16:87) And they offered submission to God on that Day; and what they
had invented abandoned them!

(16:88) Those who rejected, and repelled others from the path of God,
We have added them retribution over the retribution, for what they had
corrupted.

(16:89) And the Day We send to every nation a witness against them
from themselves, and We have brought you as a witness against
these. And We have sent down to you the Book as a clarification for
all things, and a guidance and a mercy and good tidings to those who
have submitted.

(16:90) God orders justice and goodness and that you shall help your
relatives, and He prohibits immorality and vice and transgression. He
warns you that you may remember.

(16:91) And fulfill your pledge to God when you pledge so, and do not
break your oath after making it, for you have made God a sponsor over
you. God is aware of what you do.

(16:92) And do not be like she who unraveled her knitting after it had
become strong, by breaking your oaths as a means of deception between
you. That a nation shall be more numerous than another nation, for God
puts you to the test by it. And He will show you on the Day of
Resurrection that which you were disputing in.

(16:93) And if God had wished, He would have made you one nation, but
He misguides whom He wishes, and He guides whom He wishes. And you
will be asked about what you used to do.

(16:94) And do not use your oaths as a means of deception between you,
that a foot will slip after it has been made firm, and you will taste
the evil of turning away from the path of God, and you will have a
great retribution.

(16:95) And do not purchase with the pledge of God a cheap price. What
is with God is far better for you if you know.

(16:96) What you have will run out, while what God has will
remain. And We will deliver to those who are patient their reward for
the best of what they used to do.

(16:97) Whoever does good works, whether male or female, and is a
believer, We will give him a good life and We will reward them their
dues with the best of what they used to do.

(16:98) When you read the Qur'an, you shall seek refuge with God from
the outcast devil.

(16:99) He has no authority over those who believe, and who put their
trust in their Lord.

(16:100) His authority is over those who follow him, and set him up as
a partner.

(16:101) And if We exchange a revelation in place of another
revelation; and God is more aware of what He is revealing; they say:
"You are making this up!" Alas, most of them do not know.

(16:102) Say: "The Holy Spirit has brought it down from your Lord with
the truth, so that those who believe will be strengthened, and as a
guidance and good news for those who have submitted."

(16:103) And We are aware that they say: "A human being is teaching
him." The tongue of the one they refer to is foreign, while this is a
clear Arabic tongue.

(16:104) Those who do not believe in the revelations of God, God will
not guide them, and they will have a painful retribution.

(16:105) Inventing fabrications is only done by those who do not
believe in the revelations of God; and these are the liars.

(16:106) Whoever rejects God after having believed - except for he who
is forced while his heart is still content with belief - and has
comforted his chest towards rejection, then these will have a wrath
from God and they will have a great retribution.

(16:107) That is because they have preferred the worldly life over the
Hereafter, and God does not guide the rejecting people.

(16:108) Those are the ones whom God has stamped on their hearts, and
their hearing, and their sight, and these are the unaware ones.

(16:109) Without doubt, in the Hereafter they are the losers.

(16:110) Then your Lord is; for those who emigrated after they were
persecuted, then they strived and were patient; your Lord is, after
that, Forgiver, Merciful.

(16:111) The Day every soul will come to argue for itself, and every
soul will be paid in full for what it did, and they will not be
wronged.

(16:112) And God puts forth the example of a town which was peaceful
and content, its provisions were coming to it bountifully from all
places, but then it rebelled against the blessings of God, and God
made it taste hunger and fear for what they used to do.

(16:113) And a messenger came to them from themselves, but they denied
him, so the punishment took them while they were wicked.

(16:114) So eat from what God has provided you, that which is good and
lawful, and be thankful for the blessing of God, if it is indeed He
whom you serve.

(16:115) He has only forbidden for you what is already dead, and the
blood, and the meat of pig, and what was dedicated to other than
God. But whoever is forced to, without seeking disobedience or
transgression, then God is Forgiver, Merciful.

(16:116) And do not say, as to what your tongues falsely describe:
"This is lawful, and that is forbidden;" that you seek to invent lies
about God. Those who invent lies about God will not succeed.

(16:117) A small enjoyment, and they will have a painful retribution.

(16:118) And for those who are Jewish, We forbade what We told to you
before. And We did not wrong them, but they were wronging themselves.

(16:119) Then your Lord to those who do evil out of ignorance, then
they repent after that and they make good, your Lord after that is
Forgiver, Merciful.

(16:120) Abraham was a nation, dutiful to God, a monotheist, and he
was not of the polytheists.

(16:121) Thankful for His blessings. He chose him and guided him to a
straight path.

(16:122) And We gave him good in this world, and in the Hereafter he
is of the upright ones.

(16:123) Then We inspired to you: "You shall follow the creed of
Abraham, monotheism, and he was not of the polytheists."

(16:124) Indeed, the Sabbath was only decreed for those who had
disputed in it, and your Lord will judge between them for that in
which they had disputed.

(16:125) Invite to the path of your Lord with wisdom and good advice,
and argue with them in that which is better. Your Lord is fully aware
of who is misguided from His path, and He is fully aware of the guided
ones.

(16:126) And if you punish, then punish with equivalence to that which
you were punished. And if you are patient then it is better for the
patient ones.

(16:127) And be patient, for your patience is on none except God. And
do not grieve for them, and do not be depressed by what they scheme.

(16:128) God is with those who are aware and are good doers.














