(18:1) Praise be to God who has sent down the Book to His servant, and
He has not made in it any crookedness.

(18:2) It is valuable, giving warning of the severe punishment from
Him; and it gives glad tidings to the believers who do good works,
that they will have an excellent reward.

(18:3) In which they will remain eternally.

(18:4) And to warn those who said: "God has taken a son."

(18:5) They have no knowledge of this, nor do their
fathers. Tremendous indeed is the word coming out of their
mouths. They are but saying a lie!

(18:6) Perhaps you will torment yourself in grief over them, because
they will not believe in this narrative at all.

(18:7) We have made what is on the earth an adornment for them, so
that We will test them as to which of them is best in works.

(18:8) And We will surely make what is on it completely barren.

(18:9) Did you perceive that the dwellers of the cave and the numbers
related were of Our wondrous signs?

(18:10) When the youths hid in the cave, and they said: "Our Lord,
bring us a mercy from Yourself, and help us in our affair!"

(18:11) So We sealed their ears in the cave for many years.

(18:12) Then We sent them to know which of the two groups had remained
for as long as they stayed.

(18:13) We tell to you their news with the truth. They were youths who
believed in their Lord, and We increased them in guidance.

(18:14) And We made firm their hearts when they stood and said: "Our
Lord, the Lord of the heavens and the earth, we will not call besides
Him any god. If we have done so then it was in error."

(18:15) "Here are our people, they have taken gods besides Him, while
they do not come with any clear authority. Who then is more wicked
than he who invents lies about God?"

(18:16) "So when you withdraw from them and what they serve besides
God, seek refuge in the cave, and your Lord will spread His mercy upon
you and prepare for your problem a solution."

(18:17) And you see the sun when it rises, it visits their cave from
the right, and when it sets, it touches them from the left, while they
are in an enclosure from it. That is from the signs of God. Whoever
God guides is the guided one, and whoever He misguides, you will not
find for him any ally to give direction.

(18:18) And you would think they are awake while they are asleep. And
We turn them on the right-side and on the left-side, and their dog has
his arms outstretched at the threshold. If you looked upon them you
would have run away from them and you would have been filled with
terror from them!

(18:19) And it was thus that We delivered them so they would ask
themselves. A speaker from among them said: "How long have you
stayed?" They said: "We stayed a day or part of a day." He said: "Your
Lord is surely aware how long you stayed, so send one of you with
these stamped coins of yours to the city, and let him see which is the
tastiest food, and let him come with a provision of it. And let him be
careful and let no one notice you."

(18:20) "If they discover you, they will stone you or return you to
their creed. Then you will never be successful."

(18:21) And as such, We revealed their case so that they would know
that the promise of God is true and that there is no doubt regarding
the Hour. They argued among themselves regarding them, so they said:
"Erect a monument for them!" Their Lord is fully aware of them, those
who managed to win the argument said: "We will construct a temple over
them."

(18:22) They will say: "Three, the fourth is their dog." And they say:
"Five, the sixth is their dog," guessing at what they do not know. And
they say: "Seven, and the eighth is their dog." Say: "My Lord is fully
aware of their number, none know them except for a few." So do not
argue regarding them except with proof, and do not seek information
regarding them from anyone.

(18:23) And do not simply say of something: "I will do this tomorrow."

(18:24) "Except if God wills." And remember your Lord if you forget
and say: "Perhaps my Lord will guide me to what is nearer than this in
wisdom."

(18:25) And they remained in their cave for three hundred years, and
increased by nine.

(18:26) Say: "God is fully aware how long they remained, to Him is the
unseen of the heavens and the earth, He sees and hears. They do not
have besides Him any ally, and He does not share in His judgment with
anyone."

(18:27) And recite what has been inspired to you from the Book of your
Lord, there is no changing His words, and you will not find besides
Him any refuge.

(18:28) And have patience upon yourself regarding those who call on
their Lord at dawn and dusk seeking His face, and let not your eyes
overlook them that you seek the beauty of this worldly life. And do
not obey he whom We have made his heart heedless of Our remembrance
and he followed his desire, and his fate was lost.

(18:29) And say: "The truth is from your Lord, so let whoever desires
believe, and whoever desires reject." We have prepared for the wicked
a Fire whose walls will be surrounding them. And if they cry out, they
are given a water like boiling oil which burns their faces. What a
dreadful drink and what a miserable place!

(18:30) Those who believe and do good works, We do not waste the
reward of those who have done good work.

(18:31) They will have gardens of delight with rivers flowing beneath
them, and they will be adorned with bracelets of gold and they will
wear green garments of fine silk. They will sit in it on raised
thrones. Beautiful is the reward, and beautiful is the dwelling.

(18:32) And give them the example of two men: We made for one of them
two gardens of grapes, and We surrounded them with palm trees, and We
made crops in their midst.

(18:33) Each of the two gardens brought forth its produce, and none
failed in the least. And We caused a river to gush through them.

(18:34) And he had fruit, so he said to his friend while discussing
with him: "I am better off than you financially, and of great
influence."

(18:35) And he went back into his garden while he had wronged
himself. He said: "I do not think that this will ever perish."

(18:36) "And I do not think that the Hour is coming. And if I am
indeed returned to my Lord, then I will surely find even better things
for me."

(18:37) His friend said to him while discussing with him: "Have you
disbelieved in the One who has created you from dust, then from a
seed, then He evolved you into a man?"

(18:38) "But He is God, my Lord, and I do not set up any partners at
all with my Lord."

(18:39) "And if you enter your garden, you should say: 'Thisis what
God has given, there is no power except by God.' You see me as being
less than you in wealth and in children?"

(18:40) "Perhaps my Lord will give me better than your garden, and He
will send upon it a tornado from the sky, so it becomes completely
barren."

(18:41) "Or that its water becomes deep under-ground, so you will not
be capable of seeking it."

(18:42) So his fruits were ruined, and he began turning his hands at
that which he had spent on it while it remained destroyed upon its
branches. And he said: "I wish I had not set up any partner with my
Lord!"

(18:43) And he had no group which could help against God, and he would
not have had victory.

(18:44) Such is the true authority of God. He is best to reward, and
best to end.

(18:45) And give them the example of this worldly life is like a water
which We have sent down from the sky, so that the plants of the earth
mix with it and it becomes murky being moved by the wind. And God is
capable of all things.

(18:46) Wealth and sons are a beauty of this worldly life. But the
good deeds that remain behind are better with your Lord for a reward,
and better for hope.

(18:47) And the Day We move the mountains, and you see the earth
level, and We gather them; so We will not leave out anyone of them.

(18:48) And they are displayed before your Lord as a column: "You have
come to Us as We had created you the first time. No, you claimed We
would not makefor you an appointed time!"

(18:49) And the record was displayed, so you see the criminals fearful
of what is in it. And they say: "Woe to us! What is with this record
that it does not leave out anything small or large but has counted
it." And they found what they had done present. And your Lord does not
wrong anyone.

(18:50) And We said to the angels: "Yield to Adam." So they all
yielded except for Satan. He was of the Jinn, he disobeyed the order
of his Lord. Will you take him and his progeny as allies besides Me,
while they are your enemy? Miserable for the transgressors is the
substitute!

(18:51) I did not make them witness the creation of the heavens and
the earth, nor the creation of themselves. Nor do I take the
misleaders as helpers.

(18:52) The Day when He says: "Call on your partners that you had
claimed." So they called them, but they did not respond to them. And
We made between them a barrier.

(18:53) And the criminals saw the Fire, and they realized they will be
placed in it, and they did not find any way to avert it.

(18:54) And We have dispatched in this Qur'an for the people from
every example; but man has always been most argumentative.

(18:55) And what prevented the people from believing when the guidance
came to them, and to seek forgiveness from their Lord? Are they
waiting for what happened to the people of old to come to them, or
that the retribution be brought to them face to face?

(18:56) And We do not send the messengers except as bearers of good
news and warners. But those who reject will argue using falsehood to
overshadow the truth with it. And they took My revelations and what
they have been warned by for mockery!

(18:57) And who is more wicked than he who was reminded of the
revelations of his Lord but he turned away from them, and he forgot
what his hands had done. We have made veils upon their hearts from
understanding it, and a deafness in their ears. And if you invite them
to the guidance, they will never be guided.

(18:58) And your Lord is forgiving, with mercy. If He were to evaluate
the people for what they had already earned, He would hasten for them
the retribution. No, they have an appointment, beyond which they will
find no escape.

(18:59) And those towns, We destroyed them when they transgressed. And
We made for their destruction an appointed time.

(18:60) And Moses said to his youth: "I will not stop until I reach
the junction of the two seas, or I spend a lifetime trying."

(18:61) But when they reached the junction that was in-between, they
forgot their fish, and it was able to make its way back to the sea in
a stream.

(18:62) And when they passed further on, he said to his youth: "Bring
us our lunch; we have found much fatigue in this journey of ours."

(18:63) He said: "Do you remember when we rested upon the rock? I
forgot the fish, and it was the devil who made me forget to remember
it. It made its way back to the sea amazingly!"

(18:64) He said: "That is what we have been seeking!" So they went
back retracing their steps.

(18:65) So they came upon a servant of Ours whom We had given him
mercy from Us and We had taught him knowledge from Us.

(18:66) Moses said to him: "Can I follow you so that you will teach me
from the guidance you have been taught?"

(18:67) He said: "You will not be able to have patience with me."

(18:68) "And how can you be patient about that which you have not been
given any news?"

(18:69) He said: "You will find me, God willing, to be patient. And I
will not disobey any command of yours."

(18:70) He said: "If you follow me, then do not ask about anything
until I relate it to you."

(18:71) So they ventured forth until they rode in a boat and he made a
hole in it. He said: "Have you made a hole in it to drown its people?
You have done something dreadful!"

(18:72) He said: "Did I not tell you that you will not be able to have
patience with me?"

(18:73) He said: "Forgive me for what I forgot, and do not be hard
upon my request with you."

(18:74) So they ventured forth until they came upon a youth, and he
killed him. He said: "Have you killed an innocent person without
justice? You have done something awful!"

(18:75) He said: "Did I not tell you that you will not be able to have
patience with me?"

(18:76) He said: "If I ask you about anything after this, then do not
keep me in your company. You will then have a reason over me."

(18:77) So they ventured forth until they came to the people of a
town. They requested food from its people but they refused to host
them. Then they found a wall which was close to collapsing, so he
built it. He said: "If you had wished, you could have asked a wage for
it!"

(18:78) He said: "For this, we will now part ways. I will inform you
of the meanings of those things that you could not have patience
over."

(18:79) "As for the boat, it belonged to some poor people who were
working the sea, so I wanted to damage it as there was a king coming
who takes every boat by force."

(18:80) "And as for the youth, his parents were believers, so we were
concerned that he would oppress them by his transgression and
disbelief."

(18:81) "So we wanted their Lord to replace for them with one who is
better than him in purity and closer to mercy."

(18:82) "And as for the wall, it belonged to two orphaned boys in the
city, and underneath it was a treasure for them, and their father was
a good man, so your Lord wanted that they reach their independence and
bring out their treasure as a mercy from your Lord. And none of what I
have done was of my own accord. That is the meaning of what you could
not have patience for."

(18:83) And they ask you about the Two Horned One, say: "I will recite
to you a remembrance of him."

(18:84) We had facilitated for him in the land, and We had given him
the means to all things.

(18:85) So he followed the means.

(18:86) Until he reached the setting of the sun; he found it setting
at a hot spring, and he found a people near it. We said: "O Two Horned
One, either you shall punish, or you shall do them good."

(18:87) He said: "As for he who has done wrong, we will punish him
then he will be returned to his Lord and He will punish him an awful
punishment."

(18:88) "And as for he who believes and does good, then he will have
the reward of goodness, and we will speak to him simply of our plan."

(18:89) Then he followed the means.

(18:90) So when he reached the rising of the sun, he found it rising
on a people for whom We did not make any cover except it.

(18:91) So it was, and We knew ahead of time about what he intended.

(18:92) Then he followed the means.

(18:93) Until he reached the area between the two barriers, he found
no one besides them except a people who could barely understand
anything said.

(18:94) They said: "O Two Horned One, Gog and Magog are destroyers of
the land, so shall we make a tribute for you that you will make
between us and them a barrier?"

(18:95) He said: "What my Lord has given me is far better. So help me
with strength and I will make between you and them a barrier."

(18:96) "Bring me iron ore." Until he leveled between the two walls,
he said: "Blow," until he made it a furnace, he said: "Bring me tar so
I can pour it over."

(18:97) So they could not come over it, and they could not make a hole
in it.

(18:98) He said: "This is a mercy from my Lord. But when the promise
of my Lord comes, He will make it rubble. And thepromise of my Lord is
truth."

(18:99) And We left them until that day to surge like waves on one
another. And the horn was blown, so We gathered them together.

(18:100) And We displayed Hell on that Day to the rejecters openly.

(18:101) Those whose eyes were covered against My remembrance, and
they were unable to hear.

(18:102) Did those who reject think that they could take My servants
as allies besides Me? We have prepared Hell for the rejecters as a
dwelling.

(18:103) Say: "Shall we inform you of the greatest losers?"

(18:104) "Those whose efforts in the worldly life were wasted while
they thought they were doing good!"

(18:105) These are the ones who rejected the revelations of their Lord
and His meeting. So their works were in vain, and We will not give
them any value on the Day of Resurrection.

(18:106) That is their recompense, Hell; for what they rejected and
for taking My revelations and My messengers for mockery!

(18:107) Those who believe and do good works, they will have the
gardens of Paradise as a dwelling.

(18:108) Abiding therein. They will not want to be moved from it.

(18:109) Say: "If the sea were an inkwell for the words of my Lord,
then the sea would run out before the words of my Lord run out;" even
if We were to bring another like it as an extension.

(18:110) Say: "I am but a human being like you, being inspired that
your god is One god. So whoever looks forward to meeting his Lord,
then let him do good works, and not serve anyone besides his Lord."














