(19:1) KH'YA'S'

(19:2) A reminder of the mercy of your Lord to His servant Zachariah.

(19:3) When he called out to his Lord secretly.

(19:4) He said: "My Lord, my bones have gone frail, and my hair has
turned white, and I have never been mischievous in imploring You my
Lord."

(19:5) "And I fear the kinfolk after I am gone, and my wife is
infertile, so grant me from Yourself an ally."

(19:6) "To inherit from me, and inherit from the descendants of
Jacob. And make him my Lord, well pleasing."

(19:7) "O Zachariah, We give you glad tidings of a son whose name is
John. We have not given that name before to anyone."

(19:8) He said: "My Lord, how can I have a son when my wife is
infertile, and I have reached a very old age?"

(19:9) He said: "It is such that your Lord has said. It is an easy
thing for Me. And I had created you before, when you were not a
thing."

(19:10) He said: "My Lord, make for me a sign." He said: "Your sign is
that you will not speak to the people for three nights consecutively."

(19:11) So he went out among his people from the temple enclosure, and
he indicated to them that they should glorify Him at dawn and dusk.

(19:12) "O John, take the Book with confidence." And We gave him
authority while in his youth.

(19:13) And tenderness from Us, and purity, and he was ever righteous.

(19:14) And dutiful to his parents, and never was he a disobedient
tyrant.

(19:15) And peace be upon him the day he was born, and the day he
dies, and the Day he is resurrected alive.

(19:16) And relate in the Book, Mary, when she withdrew herself from
her family to a place which was to the east.

(19:17) So she took a barrier to separate her from them, so We sent
Our Spirit to her, and he took on the shape of a human being in all
similarity.

(19:18) She said: "I seek refuge with the Almighty from you if you are
righteous."

(19:19) He said: "I am the messenger of your Lord, to grant you the
gift of a pure son."

(19:20) She said: "How can I have a son when no human being has been
with me, nor have I desired such?"

(19:21) He said: "It is such that your Lord has said, it is easy for
Me. And We shall make him a sign for the people and a mercy from
Us. It is a matter already ordained."

(19:22) So she was pregnant with him, and she went to deliver in a far
place.

(19:23) Then the birth pains came to her, by the trunk of a palm
tree. She said: "I wish I had died before this, and became totally
forgotten!"

(19:24) But then he called to her from beneath her: "Do not be sad,
your Lord has made below you a stream."

(19:25) "And shake the trunk of this palm tree, it will cause ripe
dates to fall upon you."

(19:26) "So eat and drink and be content. If you see any human being,
then say: 'I have vowed an abstinence for the Almighty, so I will not
talk today to any of mankind.'"

(19:27) Then she came to her people carrying him. They said: "O Mary,
you have come with a thing totally unexpected!"

(19:28) "O sister of Aaron, your father was not a wicked man, and your
mother has never been unchaste!"

(19:29) So she pointed to him. They said: "How can we talk to someone
who is a child in a cradle?"

(19:30) He said: "I am a servant of God, He has given me the Book and
made me a prophet."

(19:31) "And He has made me blessed wherever I am, and He has charged
me with the contact prayer and purification as long as I am alive."

(19:32) "And to be dutiful to my mother, and He has not mademe a
mischievous tyrant."

(19:33) "And peace be upon me the day I was born, and the day I die,
and the Day I am resurrected alive."

(19:34) Such was Jesus, son of Mary, and this is the truth of the
matter in which they doubt.

(19:35) God was never to take a son, be He glorified. If He decrees a
matter, then He simply says to it: 'Be,' and it is.

(19:36) And God is my Lord and your Lord, so serve Him. This is a
straight path.

(19:37) Thus the Confederates disputed between them. Therefore, woe to
those who have rejected from the scene of a terrible Day.

(19:38) Listen to what they say and watch on the Day they come to
Us. But the wicked today are in a clear misguidance.

(19:39) And warn them of the Day of Remorse. When the matter is
decided while they are oblivious, and they do not believe.

(19:40) It is We who will inherit the earth and all that is on it. And
to Us they will return.

(19:41) And recall in the Book, Abraham; he was a man of truth, a
prophet.

(19:42) When he said to his father: "O father, why do you serve what
does not hear or see, nor help you in anything?"

(19:43) "My father, knowledge has come to me which did not come to
you. So follow me that I will guide you to a level path."

(19:44) "My father, do not serve the devil. For the devil was ever
disobedient to the Almighty."

(19:45) "My father, I fear that a retribution will inflict you from
the Almighty and that you will become an ally to the devil."

(19:46) He said: "Have you abandoned my gods O Abraham? If you do not
stop this, I will stone you; and let me be."

(19:47) He said: "Peace be upon you, I will ask forgiveness for you
from my Lord. He has been most kind to me."

(19:48) "And I will abandon you and what you call on besides God. And
I will implore my Lord, hoping that I will not be mischievous in
imploring my Lord."

(19:49) So when he abandoned them and what they served besides God, We
granted him Isaac and Jacob, and each of them We made a prophet.

(19:50) And We granted them from Our mercy, and We made for them a
tongue of truthfulness to be heard.

(19:51) And recall in the Book, Moses; he was loyal, and he was a
messenger prophet.

(19:52) And We called him from the right side of the mount, and We
brought him close to talk with.

(19:53) And We granted him from Our mercy his brother Aaron as a
prophet.

(19:54) And recall in the Book, Ishmael; he was truthful to his
promise, and he was a messenger prophet.

(19:55) And he used to instruct his family to the contact prayer and
purification, and his Lord was pleased with him.

(19:56) And recall in the Book, Enoch; he was a man of truth, a
prophet.

(19:57) And We raised him to a high place.

(19:58) Those are the ones whom God has blessed from among the
prophets from the progeny of Adam, and those We carried with Noah, and
from the progeny of Abraham and Israel, and from whom We have guided
and chosen. When the revelations of the Almighty are recited to them,
they fall down prostrating, and in tears.

(19:59) Then, generations came after them who lost the contact prayer,
and followed desires. They will find their consequences.

(19:60) Except for whoever repents and believes and does good works;
they will be admitted to the Paradise, and they will not be wronged in
the least.

(19:61) Gardens of delight; that the Almighty had promised His
servants in the unseen. His promise must come to pass.

(19:62) They will not hear in it any nonsense, only peace. And they
will have their provision in it morning and evening.

(19:63) Such is the Paradise that We inherit to any of Our servants
who are righteous.

(19:64) "And we are not sent except by the authority of your Lord. To
Him are our present and our future, and all that is in-between. And
your Lord was never to forget."

(19:65) "The Lord of the heavens and the earth and what is between
them. So serve Him and be patient in His service. Do you know anything
that is like Him?"

(19:66) And man says: "Can it be that when I am dead, I will be
brought out alive?"

(19:67) Does man not remember that We created him before, when he was
not a thing?

(19:68) By your Lord, We will gather them and the devils, then We will
place them around Hell on their knees.

(19:69) Then We will drag out from every clan the ones which were most
in opposition to the Almighty.

(19:70) Then, it is We who are best aware of those who deserve to be
burnt therein.

(19:71) And every single one of you will encounter it. This for your
Lord is a certainty that will come to pass.

(19:72) Then We will save those who were righteous, and We will leave
the wicked in it on their knees.

(19:73) And when Our clear revelations were recited to them, those who
rejected said to those who believed: "Which of our two groups is in a
better station and more prosperous?"

(19:74) And how many a generation have We destroyed before them? They
had more wealth and more influence.

(19:75) Say: "Whoever is in misguidance, then the Almighty will lead
them on." Until they see what they have been promised, either the
retribution or the Hour. Then they will know who is in a worse place
and weaker in power.

(19:76) And God increases the guidance of those who are guided. And
the goodness that endures is better with your Lord as a reward and a
far better return.

(19:77) Did you see the one who rejected Our revelations and said: "I
will be given wealth and children."

(19:78) Did he look into the future? Or has he taken a pledge with the
Almighty?

(19:79) No, We will record what he says, and We will increase for him
the retribution significantly.

(19:80) Then We inherit from him all that he said, and he shall come
to Us all alone.

(19:81) And they have taken gods besides God to be for them their
glory.

(19:82) On the contrary, they will reject their service of them and
they will be standing against them.

(19:83) Did you not see that We send the devils upon the rejecters to
push them with incitement?

(19:84) So do not be in haste towards them; We are preparing for them
a preparation.

(19:85) The Day We gather the righteous to the Almighty as a
delegation.

(19:86) And We drive the criminals to Hell as a herd.

(19:87) None will possess intercession, except for he who has taken a
pledge with the Almighty.

(19:88) And they said the Almighty has taken a son!

(19:89) You have come with a gross blasphemy.

(19:90) The heavens are about to shatter from it, and the earth crack
open, and the mountains fall and crumble.

(19:91) That they claimed that the Almighty had a son!

(19:92) And what need does the Almighty have to take a son?

(19:93) When all there is in the heavens and the earth will come to
the Almighty as servants.

(19:94) He has encompassed them, and counted them one by one.

(19:95) And all of them will come to Him on the Day of Resurrection,
all alone.

(19:96) Those who believe and do good works, the Almighty will make
for them affection.

(19:97) Thus We have made this easy in your tongue so that you may
give good news with it to the righteous and that you may warn with it
the quarrelsome people.

(19:98) And how many a generation have We destroyed before them? Do
you perceive any of them or hear from them a sound?














