(2:1) ALM.

(2:2) That is the Book in which there is no doubt, a guidance for the
righteous.

(2:3) Those who believe in the unseen, and hold the contact prayer,
and from Our provisions to them they spend.

(2:4) And those who believe in what was sent down to you, and what was
sent down before you, and regarding the Hereafter they are certain.

(2:5) These are the ones guided by their Lord, and these are the
successful ones.

(2:6) As for those who reject, whether you warn them or do not warn
them, they will not believe.

(2:7) God has sealed their hearts and their ears, and over their eyes
are covers. They will incur a great retribution.

(2:8) And from the people are those who say: "We believe in God and in
the Last Day," but they are not believers.

(2:9) They seek to deceive God and those who believe, but they only
deceive themselves without noticing.

(2:10) In their hearts is a disease, so God increases their disease,
and they will have a painful retribution for what they have denied.

(2:11) And if they are told: "Do not make corruption in the land,"
they say: "But we are reformers!"

(2:12) No, they are the corruptors, but they do not perceive.

(2:13) And if they are told: "Believe, as the people have believed,"
they say: "Shall we believe like the foolish have believed?" No, they
are the foolish but they do not know.

(2:14) And if they come across those who have believed, they say: "We
believe," and when they are alone with their devils they say: "We are
with you, we were only mocking."

(2:15) God mocks them, and leaves them prolonged in their
transgression.

(2:16) These are the ones who have purchased straying with guidance;
their trade did not profit them, nor were they guided.

(2:17) Their example is like the one who lights a fire, so when it
illuminates what is around him, God takes away his light and leaves
him in the darkness not seeing.

(2:18) Deaf, dumb, and blind, they will not return.

(2:19) Or like a storm cloud from the sky, in it is darkness and
thunder and lightning. They place their fingers in their ears from the
thunder-claps for fear of death; and God is aware of the rejecters.

(2:20) The lightning nearly snatches their sight, whenever it lights
the path they walk in it, and when it becomes dark for them they
stand. Had God willed, He would have taken their hearing and their
sight; God is capable of all things.

(2:21) O people, serve your Lord who has created you and those before
you that you may be righteous.

(2:22) The One who has made the earth a resting place, and the sky a
shelter, and He sent down from the sky water with which He brought out
fruits as a gift to you. So do not set up any equals with God while
you know.

(2:23) And if you are in doubt as to what We have sent down to Our
servant, then bring a chapter like this, and call upon your witnesses
other than God if you are truthful.

(2:24) And if you cannot do this; and you will not be able to do this;
then beware the Fire whose fuel is people and stones, it has been
prepared for the rejecters.

(2:25) And give good news to those who believe and do good works that
they will have estates with rivers flowing beneath them. Every time
they receive a provision of its fruit, they say: "This is what we have
been provisioned before," and they are given its likeness. And there
they will have pure mates, and in it they will abide.

(2:26) God does not shy away from putting forth the example of a
mosquito, or anything above it. As for those who believe, they know
that it is the truth from their Lord. As for the rejecters, they say:
"What does God intend with this example?" He strays many by it, and He
guides many by it; but He only strays by it the wicked.

(2:27) The ones who break the pledge to God after making its covenant,
and they sever what God had ordered to be delivered, and they make
corruption on the earth; these are the losers.

(2:28) How can you reject God when you were dead and He brought you to
life? Then He makes you die, then He brings you to life, then to Him
you return.

(2:29) He is the One who has created for you all that is on the earth,
then He attended to the heaven and has made it seven heavens, and He
is aware of all things.

(2:30) And your Lord said to the angels: "I am placing a successor on
the earth." They said: "Will You place in it he who would make
corruption in it, and spill blood; while we praise by Your glory, and
exalt to You?" He said: "I know what you do not know."

(2:31) And He taught Adam the names of all things, then He displayed
them to the angels and said: "Inform Me of the names of these if you
are truthful."

(2:32) They said: "Glory to You, we have no knowledge except that
which You have taught us, You are the Knowledgeable, the Wise."

(2:33) He said: "O Adam, inform them of their names," so when he
informed them of their names, He said: "Did I not tell you that I know
the unseen of the heavens and the earth, and that I know what you
reveal and what you are hiding?"

(2:34) And We said to the angels: "Yield to Adam," so they yielded
except for Satan, he refused and became arrogant, and became of the
rejecters.

(2:35) And We said: "O Adam, reside you and your mate in the paradise,
and eat from it bountifully as you both wish, and do not come near
this tree, else you will be of those who have wronged."

(2:36) So, the devil caused them to slip from it, and he brought them
out from what they were in, and We said: "Descend; for you are enemies
to one another; and on the earth you will have residence and
provisions until the appointed time."

(2:37) Adam then received words from His Lord, so He forgave him; He
is the Forgiver, the Merciful.

(2:38) We said: "Descend from it all of you, so when the guidance
comes from Me, then whoever follows My guidance, they will have
nothing to fear, nor will they grieve."

(2:39) And those who disbelieve and deny Our revelations, they are the
dwellers of Hell, in it they will abide.

(2:40) O Children of Israel, remember My blessings that I had blessed
you with, and fulfill your pledge to Me that I may fulfill My pledge
to you, and reverence Me alone.

(2:41) And believe in what I have sent down, authenticating what is
with you, and do not be the first to disbelieve in it! And do not
purchase with My revelations a cheap gain, and of Me you shall be
aware.

(2:42) And do not confound the truth with falsehood, nor keep the
truth secret while you know.

(2:43) And hold the contact prayer, and contribute towards
purification, and kneel with those who kneel.

(2:44) Do you exhort the people to do good, but forget yourselves,
while you are reciting the Book? Do you not comprehend?

(2:45) And seek help through patience and through the contact
prayer. It is a difficult thing, but not so for the humble.

(2:46) The ones who conceive that they will meet their Lord and that
to Him they will return.

(2:47) O Children of Israel, remember My blessings that I had blessed
you with, and that I had preferred you over all the worlds.

(2:48) And beware of a Day when no soul can avail another soul, nor
will any intercession be accepted from it, nor will any ransom be
taken, nor will they have supporters.

(2:49) And We saved you from the people of Pharaoh, they were
afflicting you with the worst punishment; they used to slaughter your
children, and rape your women. In that was a great test from your
Lord.

(2:50) And We parted the sea for you, thus We saved you and drowned
the people of Pharaoh while you were watching.

(2:51) And We appointed a meeting time for Moses of forty nights, but
then you took the calf after him while you were wicked.

(2:52) Then We forgave you after that, perhaps you would be thankful.

(2:53) And We gave Moses the Book and the criterion, perhaps you would
be guided.

(2:54) And Moses said to his people: "O my people, you have wronged
your souls by taking the calf, so repent to your Maker, and kill
yourselves. That is better for you with your Maker, so He would
forgive you. He is the Forgiving, the Merciful."

(2:55) And you said: "O Moses, we will not believe you until we see
God openly!" So the lightning strike took you while you were still
staring.

(2:56) Then We resurrected you after your death that you may be
thankful.

(2:57) And We shaded you with clouds, and sent down to you manna and
quails: "Eat from the goodness of the provisions We have provided
you." They did not wrong Us, but it was their souls that they wronged.

(2:58) And We said: "Enter this town, and eat from it as you wish
bountifully. And enter the passageway by crouching, and say: "Our load
is removed," so that your wrongdoings will be forgiven, and We will
increase for the good doers."

(2:59) But the wicked altered what was said to them to a different
saying, thus We sent down upon the wicked an affliction from the
heavens for what wickedness they were in.

(2:60) And Moses was seeking water for his people, so We said: "Strike
the stone with your staff." Thus twelve springs exploded out of it;
each people then knew from where to drink. "Eat and drink from the
provisions of God, and do not roam the earth as corrupters."

(2:61) And you said: "O Moses, we will not be patient to one type of
food, so call for us your Lord that He may bring forth what the earth
grows of its beans, cucumbers, garlic, lentils, and onions." He said:
"Would you trade that which is lowly with that which is good?" Descend
Egypt, you will have in it what you have asked for. And they were
stricken with humiliation and disgrace, and they remained under the
wrath of God for they were disbelieving in the revelations of God, and
killing the prophets without right; this is for what they have
disobeyed and transgressed.

(2:62) Surely those who believe; and those who are Jewish, and the
Nazarenes, and the Sabians, whoever of them believes in God and the
Last Day and does good works; they will have their recompense with
their Lord, and there is no fear upon them, nor will they grieve.

(2:63) And We took your covenant, and raised the mount above you:
"Take what We have given you with strength, and remember what is in it
that you may be righteous."

(2:64) Then you turned away after this. And had it not been for the
grace of God upon you and His mercy, you would have been of the
losers.

(2:65) You have come to know who it was among you that transgressed
the Sabbath, We said to them: "Be despicable apes!"

(2:66) So it was that We made it into an example for what had happened
in it and also what had passed, and a reminder to the righteous.

(2:67) And Moses said to his people: "God orders you to slaughter a
heifer." They said: "Do you mock us?" He said: "I seek refuge with God
that I not be of the ignorant ones."

(2:68) They said: "Call upon your Lord for us that He may clarify
which it is." He said: "He says it is a heifer neither too old nor too
young, an age between that. So now do as you are commanded."

(2:69) They said: "Call upon your Lord for us that He may clarify what
color it is." He said: "He says it is a yellow heifer with a strong
color, pleasing to those who see it."

(2:70) They said: "Call upon your Lord for us that He may clarify
which one it is, for the heifers all look alike to us and we will, God
willing, be guided."

(2:71) He said: "He says it is a heifer which was never subjugated to
plough the land, or water the crops, free from any blemish." They
said: "Now you have come with the truth." And they slaughtered it,
though they had nearly not done so.

(2:72) And you had murdered a person, then disputed in the matter; God
was to bring out what you were keeping secret.

(2:73) We said: "Strike him with parts from it." It is thus that God
brings the dead to life, and He shows you His signs that you may
comprehend.

(2:74) Then your hearts became hardened after that, they became like
stone or even harder; but even from stone there are rivers that burst
forth, and from them are those that crack so that the water comes
forth, and from them are what descends from concern towards God; and
God is not unaware of what you do.

(2:75) Did you expect that they would believe with you, when a group
of them had heard the words of God then altered them knowingly after
having understood?

(2:76) And when they come across those who believe, they say: "We
believe!" And when they are alone with each other they say: "Why do
you inform them of what God has said to us? Then they would use it in
argument against us at your Lord. Do you not comprehend?"

(2:77) Do they not know that God knows what they conceal and what they
declare?

(2:78) And among them are Gentiles who do not know the Book except by
hearsay, and they only conjecture.

(2:79) So woe to those who write the Book with their hands then say:
"This is from God," so that they can purchase with it a cheap price!
Woe to them for what their hands have written and woe to them for what
they gained.

(2:80) And they said: "The Fire will not touch us except for a few
number of days." Say: "Have you taken a pledge with God? If so, then
God will not break His pledge. Or do you say about God what you do not
know?"

(2:81) Indeed, whoever gains a sin, and is surrounded by his mistakes;
those are the people of the Fire, in it they will abide.

(2:82) And those who believe and do good works, they are the people of
the Paradise, in it they will abide.

(2:83) And We took the covenant of the Children of Israel: "You shall
not serve except God, and do good to your parents, and regard the
relatives, and the orphans, and the needy, and say kind things to the
people, and hold the contact prayer, and contribute towards
purification." But then you turned away, except for a few of you; you
were objecting.

(2:84) And We have taken a covenant with you: "You shall not spill the
blood of each other, nor expel each other from your homes." And you
agreed to this while bearing witness.

(2:85) But then here you are killing each other and expelling a group
of you from their homes; you act towards them with evil and
animosity. And if they come to you as prisoners, you ransom them while
it was unlawful for you to expel them! Do you believe in part of the
Book and disbelieve in part? The punishment for those among you who do
so is humiliation in this worldly life, and on the Day of Resurrection
they will be delivered to the most severe retribution. God is not
unaware of what you all do.

(2:86) These are the ones who have purchased this worldly life instead
of the Hereafter. The retribution will not be reduced for them, nor
will they be supported.

(2:87) And We gave Moses the Book, and after him We sent the
messengers. And We gave Jesus, son of Mary, the clear proofs, and We
supported him with the Holy Spirit. Is it that every time a messenger
comes to you with what your souls do not desire, you become arrogant?
A group of them you deny, and a group of them you kill!

(2:88) And they said: "Our hearts are sealed!" No, it is God who has
cursed them for their rejection, for very little do they believe.

(2:89) And when a Book came to them from God, authenticating what is
with them; while before that they were mocking those who rejected; so
when what they knew came to them, they rejected it! The curse of God
be upon the rejecters.

(2:90) Miserable indeed is what they purchase with their souls, that
they disbelieve in what God has sent down as a resentment that God
would send down from His grace to whom He pleases of His servants;
thus they have incurred wrath upon wrath. And the rejecters will have
a humiliating retribution.

(2:91) And if it is said to them: "Believe in what God has sent down;"
they say: "We believe only in what was sent down to us," and they
reject what came after it, while it is the truth authenticating what
is with them. Say: "Why then did you kill the prophets of God if you
were believers?"

(2:92) And Moses had come to you with clear proofs, then you took the
calf after him; you were wicked!

(2:93) And We took your covenant, and raised the mount above you:
"Take what We have given you with strength, and listen." They said:
"We hear and disobey!" And they had consumed the calf inside their
hearts by their disbelief. Say: "Miserable indeed is what your belief
orders of you if you are believers!"

(2:94) Say: "If the abode of the Hereafter has been set exclusively
for you with God, to the exception of all other people, then you
should wish for death if you are truthful!"

(2:95) They will never wish for it because of what their hands have
delivered; and God is aware of the wicked.

(2:96) And you will find them the most obsessive people regarding
longevity; even more than the polytheists; each one of them wishes
that he could live a thousand years. It will not change for him the
retribution even if he lived so long, God is watchful over what you
do.

(2:97) Say: "Whoever is an enemy to Gabriel, then know that he has
sent it down into your heart with the permission of God,
authenticating what is with him, and a guide and good news for the
believers."

(2:98) "Whoever is an enemy to God and His angels, and His messengers,
and Gabriel, and Michael, then so God is the enemy to the
disbelievers."

(2:99) We have sent down to you clear revelations; only the wicked
would disbelieve in them.

(2:100) Is it that each time they make a pledge, a group of them
breaks it? Alas, most of them do not believe.

(2:101) And when a messenger came to them from God, authenticating
what was with them, a group of those who had already received the Book
placed the Book of God behind their backs as if they did not know.

(2:102) And they followed what the devils recited regarding the
kingship of Solomon. Solomon did not reject, but it was the devils who
rejected by teaching people magic, and teaching them what was sent
down on the two angels in Babylon, Haroot and Maroot. They did not
teach anyone until they would say: "We are a test, so do not lose
faith!" Thus they teach what can separate between a person and his
mate; but they cannot harm anyone except with the permission of
God. And they learn what harms them and does not benefit them, and
they have known that he who purchases such has no place in the
Hereafter. Miserable indeed is what they purchased with their souls if
only they knew!

(2:103) And had they believed and been righteous, it would have
brought them a recompense with God which is far better if only they
knew!

(2:104) O you who believe, do not say: "Shepherd us," but say: "Be
patient with us," and listen. For the rejecters is a painful
retribution.

(2:105) Neither do those who have rejected from among the people of
the Book, nor from among the polytheists, wish that any good comes
down to you from your Lord. But God chooses with His mercy whom He
wishes; and from God is the greatest grace.

(2:106) We do not duplicate a sign, or make it forgotten, unless We
bring one which is like it or even greater. Did you not know that God
is capable of all things?

(2:107) Did you not know that to God is the kingship of the heavens
and the earth, and that you do not have besides God any guardian or
supporter?

(2:108) Or do you want to ask your messenger as Moses was asked
before? Whoever replaces belief with rejection, he has indeed strayed
from the right path.

(2:109) Many of the people of the Book have wished that they could
return you to being rejecters after your believing, out of envy from
their souls after the truth was made clear to them. You shall forgive
them and overlook until God brings His will. God is capable of all
things.

(2:110) And hold the contact prayer, and contribute towards
purification; and what you bring forth of good for your souls you will
find it with God. God is watching what you do.

(2:111) And they said: "None shall enter the Paradise except those who
are Jewish or Nazarenes;" this is what they wish! Say: "Bring forth
your proof if you are truthful."

(2:112) No; whoever submits himself to God, while doing good, he will
have his recompense with his Lord. There will be no fear over them,
nor will they grieve.

(2:113) And the Jews say: "The Nazarenes have no basis," and the
Nazarenes say: "The Jews have no basis," while they are both reciting
the Book! Similarly, those who do not know have said the same
thing. God will judge between them on the Day of Resurrection in what
they dispute.

(2:114) And who are more wicked than those who prevent the temples of
God that His name be mentioned in them; and they seek their
destruction? They will not be able to enter them except in fear; they
will have humiliation in this world and in the Hereafter a painful
retribution.

(2:115) And to God belong the east and the west, so wherever you turn,
there is the face of God. God is Encompassing, Knowledgeable.

(2:116) And they said: "God has taken a son!" Be He glorified. To Him
is all that is in the heavens and the earth, all are dutiful to Him.

(2:117) Initiator of the heavens and the earth, when He decrees a
command, He merely says to it: 'Be,' and it is.

(2:118) And those who do not know said: "If only God would speak to
us, or a sign would come to us." It is the same thing that the people
before them have said, their hearts are so similar! We have clarified
the signs for a people who comprehend.

(2:119) We have sent you with the truth as a bearer of good news and a
warner. You will not be questioned about the people of Hell.

(2:120) Neither the Jews nor the Nazarenes will be pleased with you
until you follow their creed. Say: "The guidance is the guidance of
God." And if you follow their desires after the knowledge that has
come to you, then there is none who can help or protect you against
God.

(2:121) Those to whom We gave the Book, they recite it as it
truthfully deserves to be recited; they believe in it. As for those
who disbelieve in it, they are the losers.

(2:122) O Children of Israel, remember My blessings that I had blessed
you with, and that I had preferred you over all the worlds.

(2:123) And beware of a Day when no soul can avail another soul, nor
will any amendment be accepted from it, nor will any intercession help
it; they will not be supported.

(2:124) And Abraham was tested by words from His Lord, which he
fulfilled. He said: "I will make you a leader for the people." He
said: "And also from my progeny?" He said: "My pledge will not
encompass the wicked."

(2:125) And We have made the Sanctuary to be a model for the people
and a security. And you shall take, from the station of Abraham, a
place for making the contact. And We entrusted to Abraham and Ishmael:
"You shall purify My Sanctuary for those who visit, and those who are
devoted, and the kneeling, the prostrating."

(2:126) And Abraham said: "My Lord, make this a land of peace, and
provide for its inhabitants of the fruits for whoever believes in God
and the Last Day." He said: "As for he who rejects, I will let him
enjoy for a while, then I will force him to the retribution of the
Fire. What a miserable destiny!"

(2:127) And as Abraham raised from the Sanctuary its foundations,
along with Ishmael: "Our Lord accept this from us, You are the Hearer,
the Knowledgeable."

(2:128) "Our Lord, and let us submit to You and from our progeny a
nation submitting to You, and show us our rites, and forgive us; You
are the Forgiver, the Merciful."

(2:129) "Our Lord, and send among them a messenger from among
themselves, that he may recite to them Your revelations and teach them
the Book and the wisdom, and purify them. You are the Noble, the
Wise."

(2:130) And who would abandon the creed of Abraham except one who
fools himself? We have selected him in this world, and in the
Hereafter he is of the righteous.

(2:131) When his Lord said to him: "Submit," he said: "I submit to the
Lord of the worlds."

(2:132) And Abraham enjoined his sons and Jacob: "O my sons, God has
selected the system for you, so do not die except as ones who have
submitted."

(2:133) Or were you present when death came to Jacob and he said to
his sons: "Who shall you serve from after me?" They said: "Your god,
and the god of your fathers Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac; One god
and to Him we submit."

(2:134) That is a nation that has passed away; to them is what they
have earned, and to you is what you have earned; and you will not be
asked regarding what they did.

(2:135) And they said: "Be Jewish or Nazarenes so that you may be
guided!" Say: "No, rather the creed of Abraham, monotheism; for he was
not of the polytheists."

(2:136) Say: "We believe in God and in what was sent down to us and
what was sent down to Abraham, and Ishmael, and Isaac, and Jacob, and
the Patriarchs, and what was given to Moses and Jesus, and what was
given to the prophets from their Lord; we do not make a distinction
between any of them and to Him we submit."

(2:137) So, if they believe exactly as you have believed, then they
are guided; but if they turn away, then they are in opposition and God
will suffice you against them, and He is the Hearer, the Knower.

(2:138) Such is the coloring of God, and who is better than God in
coloring? And to Him we are in service.

(2:139) Say: "Do you debate with us regarding God? He is our Lord and
your Lord, and we have our works and you have your works, and to Him
we are believers."

(2:140) "Or do you say that Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob
and the Patriarchs were Jewish or Nazarenes?" Say: "Are you more
knowledgeable or is God?" Who is more wicked than the one who conceals
a testimony with him from God? God is not unaware of what you do.

(2:141) That is a nation that has passed away; to them is what they
have earned, and to you is what you have earned; and you will not be
asked regarding what they did.

(2:142) The foolish from among the people will say: "What has turned
them away from the focal point that they were on?" Say: "To God are
the east and the west, He guides whomsoever He wishes to a straight
path."

(2:143) And as such, We have made you a balanced nation so that you
may be witness over the people, and that the messenger may be witness
over you. And We did not make the focal point that you became on
except to distinguish who follows the messenger from those who will
turn on their heels. It was a great thing indeed except for those whom
God had guided; God was not to waste your belief. God is Merciful and
Compassionate over the people.

(2:144) We see the shifting of your face towards the heaven; We will
thus set for you a focal point that will be pleasing to you: "You
shall set yourself towards the Restricted Temple; and wherever you may
be, you shall all set yourselves towards it." Those who have been
given the Book know it is the truth from their Lord. And God is not
unaware of what you do.

(2:145) And if you come to those who have been given the Book with
every sign they will not follow your focal point, nor will you follow
their focal point, nor will some of them even follow each others focal
point. And if you were to follow their desires after the knowledge
that has come to you, then you would be one of the wicked.

(2:146) Those to whom We have given the Book know it as they know
their own children; and a group of them hides the truth while they
know.

(2:147) The truth is from your Lord, so do not be one of those who
doubt.

(2:148) And to each is a direction that he will take, so you shall
race towards good deeds. Wherever you may be, God will bring you all
together. God is capable of all things.

(2:149) And from wherever you go out, you shall set yourself towards
the Restricted Temple; it is the truth from your Lord; and God is not
unaware of what you do.

(2:150) And wherever you go out, you shall set yourself towards the
Restricted Temple. And wherever you may be you shall set yourselves
towards it; that the people will have no room for debate with you,
except those of them who are wicked. You shall not be concerned by
them, but be concerned by Me; so that I may complete My blessings upon
you and that you may be guided.

(2:151) As We have sent a messenger to you from among yourselves to
recite Our revelations to you, and purify you, and teach you the Book
and the wisdom, and teach you what you did not know.

(2:152) So remember Me that I may remember you, and be thankful to Me
and do not disbelieve.

(2:153) O you who believe, seek help through patience and through the
contact prayer, God is with the patient ones.

(2:154) And do not say of those who are killed in the cause of God
that they are dead; no, they are alive but you do not perceive.

(2:155) And We will test you with some fear and hunger, and a shortage
in money and lives and fruits. And give good news to those who are
patient.

(2:156) The ones who, when afflicted with adversity, they say: "We are
to God and to Him we will return."

(2:157) For those there will be contacts from their Lord and a mercy,
they are the guided ones.

(2:158) Indeed, the stone and the rock outcropping are among the
symbols of God. So whoever makes Pilgrimage to the Sanctuary, or is
merely visiting, commits no error should he traverse them. And whoever
donates for goodness, then God is Thankful, Knowledgeable.

(2:159) Surely those who conceal what We have sent down to them of the
clarities and the guidance, after We Had made it clear for the people
in the Book; these will be cursed by God and be cursed by those who
curse.

(2:160) Except those who repent and amend and clarify; for those I
will accept their repentance, for I am the One who accepts repentance,
the Merciful.

(2:161) Surely, those who have disbelieved and then died as
disbelievers; they will be cursed by God, and the angels, and all the
people.

(2:162) They will abide therein, where the retribution will not be
lightened for them, nor will they be reprieved.

(2:163) And your god is but One god, there is no god except He; the
Almighty, the Merciful.

(2:164) Surely, in the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the
differences between the night and the day, and the ships that sail in
the sea for the benefit of the people, and what God has sent down of
water from the sky so He brings the earth back to life after it had
died, and He sent forth from it every creature, and the dispatching of
the winds and the clouds that have been designated between the earth
and the sky are signs for a people who comprehend.

(2:165) And from among the people are some who take other than God as
equals to Him, they love them as they love God; but those who believe
love God more strongly; and when those who were wicked see the
retribution, they will see that all power belongs to God, and that God
is severe in retribution.

(2:166) When those who were followed will disown those who followed
them, and they will see the retribution, and all excuses will abandon
them.

(2:167) And those who followed them said: "If we only could have a
chance to disown them as they have disowned us." It is such that God
will show them their works which will be regretted by them; they will
not leave the Fire.

(2:168) O people, eat from what is on the earth as good and lawful,
and do not follow in the footsteps of the devil. He is to you a clear
enemy.

(2:169) He only orders you to evil and immorality, and that you may
say about God what you do not know.

(2:170) And if they are told: "Follow what God has sent down," they
say: "No, we will follow what we found our fathers doing!" What if
their fathers did not comprehend anything and were not guided?

(2:171) And the example of those who disbelieve is like one who
repeats what he has heard of calls and cries; deaf, dumb, and blind,
they do not comprehend.

(2:172) O you who believe, eat from the good things We have provided
for you, and be thankful to God; if it is Him you serve.

(2:173) He has only made unlawful for you that which is already dead,
and the blood, and the meat of pig, and what was dedicated with to
other than God. But whoever is forced to, without seeking disobedience
or transgression, then there is no sin upon him. God is Forgiving,
Merciful.

(2:174) Surely, those who conceal what God has sent down of the Book,
and they purchase with it a cheap price; they will not eat in their
bellies except the Fire, and God will not speak to them on the Day of
Resurrection, nor will He purify them, and they will have a painful
retribution.

(2:175) These are the ones who have purchased straying with guidance,
and retribution for forgiveness; they have no patience towards the
Fire.

(2:176) This is because God has sent down the Book with the truth; and
those who have disputed about the Book are in far opposition.

(2:177) Piety is not to turn your faces towards the east and the west,
but pious is one who believes in God and the Last Day, and the angels,
and the Book, and the prophets, and who gives money out of love to the
relatives, and the orphans, and the needy, and the wayfarer, and those
who ask, and to free the slaves; and who upholds the contact prayer,
and who contributes towards purification; and those who keep their
pledges when they make a pledge, and those who are patient in the face
of adversity and hardship and when in despair. These are the ones who
have been truthful, and these are the righteous.

(2:178) O you who believe, equivalence has been decreed for you in the
case of those who are slain; the free for the free, and the slave for
the slave, and the female for the female. Whoever is forgiven anything
by his brother, then it is to be followed with kindness and goodness
towards him; that is an alleviation from your Lord, and a
mercy. Whoever transgresses after that, he will have a painful
retribution.

(2:179) And through equivalence you will be protecting life, O you who
possess intelligence, that you may be righteous.

(2:180) It is decreed for you that if death should come to any of you,
that it is best if he leaves a will for his family and relatives out
of goodness; this is a truth for the righteous.

(2:181) Whoever alters it after having heard it, then the sin will be
upon those who alter it. God is Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(2:182) If anyone fears harm or sin from his beneficiary, then
reconcile what is between them. God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(2:183) O you who believe, fasting has been decreed for you as it was
decreed for those before you, perhaps you may be righteous.

(2:184) A few number of days. Whoever of you is ill or traveling, then
the same number from different days. As for those who can do so but
with difficulty, they may redeem by feeding the needy. And whoever
does good voluntarily, then it is better for him. And if you fast it
is better for you if only you knew.

(2:185) The month of Ramadhan, in which the Qur'an was revealed; as a
guide to the people and clarities from the guidance and the
Criterion. Whoever of you witnesses the month, then let him fast
it. And whoever is ill or traveling, then the same number from
different days. God wants to bring you ease and not to bring you
hardship; and so that you may complete the count, and magnify God for
what He has guided you, that you may be thankful.

(2:186) And if My servants ask you about Me, I am near answering the
calls of those who call to Me. So let them respond to Me and believe
in Me that they may be guided.

(2:187) It has been made lawful for you during the night of fasting to
approach your women sexually. They are a garment for you and you are a
garment for them. God knows that you used to betray your souls so He
has accepted your repentance, and forgiven you; now you may approach
them and seek what God has written for you. And you may eat and drink
until the white thread is distinct from the black thread of dawn; then
you shall complete the fast until night; and do not approach them
while you are devoted in the temples. These are the boundaries of God,
so do not transgress them. It is thus that God clarifies His
revelations to the people who they may be righteous.

(2:188) And do not consume your money between you unjustly by bribing
the decision makers so that you may consume a part of the money of
other people sinfully while you know!

(2:189) They ask you regarding the crescent moons, say: "They are a
timing mechanism for the people and the Pilgrimage." And piety is not
that you would enter a home from its back, but piety is whoever is
righteous and comes to the homes from their main doors. And be aware
of God that you may succeed.

(2:190) And fight in the cause of God against those who fight you, but
do not aggress, God does not love the aggressors.

(2:191) And kill them wherever you encounter them, and expel them from
where they expelled you, and know that persecution is worse than being
killed. And do not fight them at the Restricted Temple unless they
fight you in it; if they fight you then kill them, thus is the
recompense of the rejecters.

(2:192) And if they cease, then God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(2:193) And fight them so there is no more persecution, and so that
the system is for God. If they cease, then there will be no aggression
except against the wicked.

(2:194) The restricted month may be met within the restricted month,
and what is unlawful may be met with retaliation. Whoever attacks you,
then you shall attack him the same as he attacked you; and be aware of
God, and know that God is with the righteous.

(2:195) And spend in the cause of God, but do not throw your resources
to disaster. And do good, for God loves those who do good.

(2:196) And conclude the Pilgrimage and the visit for God. But, if you
are prevented, then provide what offering is affordable; and do not
shave your heads until the offering reaches its destination. Whoever
of you is ill or has an ailment to his head, then he may redeem by
fasting or giving a charity or a rite. But if you are secure, then
whoever makes the visit, but decides to continue until the Pilgrimage,
then he shall provide what offering is affordable; but for he who
cannot find anything, then he must fast for three days during the
Pilgrimage and seven when he returns; this will make a complete ten -
this is for those whose family is not resident at the Restricted
Temple. And be aware of God, and know that God is severe in
retribution.

(2:197) The Pilgrimage months are made known. So whoever decides to
perform the Pilgrimage therein, then there shall be no sexual
approach, nor wickedness, nor baseless argument in the Pilgrimage. And
any good that you do, God is aware of it; and bring provisions for
yourselves, though the best provision is righteousness; and be aware
of Me O you who possess intelligence.

(2:198) There is no sin upon you to seek goodness from your Lord. So
when you disperse from the elevated place, then remember God at the
symbol which is restricted, and remember Him as He has guided you; for
you were straying before that.

(2:199) Then you shall disperse from where the people dispersed, and
seek the forgiveness of God; God is surely Forgiving, Merciful.

(2:200) When you have completed your rites, then remember God as you
remember your fathers or even greater. From among the people is he who
says: "Our Lord, give us from this world!" But in the Hereafter he has
no part.

(2:201) And some of them say: "Our Lord, give us good in this world,
and good in the Hereafter, and spare us from the retribution of the
Fire."

(2:202) These will have a benefit for what they have earned; and God
is swift in reckoning

(2:203) And remember God during a few number of days. Whoever hurries
to two days, there is no sin upon him; and whoever delays, there is no
sin upon him if he is being righteous. And be aware of God, and know
that it is to Him that you will be gathered.

(2:204) And from among the people are whose words you admire in this
worldly life, but God is witness as to what is in his heart, for he is
the worst in opposition.

(2:205) And if he gains power, he seeks to corrupt the earth and
destroy its crops, and the lineage. God does not love corruption.

(2:206) And if he is told: "Be aware of God," his pride leads him to
more sin. Hell shall be sufficient for him; what a miserable abode!

(2:207) And from among the people is he who sells his soul seeking the
grace of God; God is kind to His servants.

(2:208) O you who believe, join in peace, all of you, and do not
follow in the footsteps of the devil. He is to you a clear enemy.

(2:209) But if you slip after the clarity has come to you, then know
that God is Noble, Wise.

(2:210) Are they waiting for God to come to them shadowed in clouds
with the angels? The matter would then be finished! And to God all
matters are returned.

(2:211) Ask the Children of Israel how many clear signs did We give
them? And whoever changes the grace of God after it has come to him,
then God is Mighty in retribution.

(2:212) This worldly life has been made pleasing to the disbelievers,
and they mock those who believe. And those who are righteous will be
above them on the Day of Resurrection; God provides for whoever He
wishes without a price.

(2:213) The people used to be one nation, then God sent the prophets
as bearers of good news and warners, and He sent down with them the
Book with the truth so that they may judge between the people in what
they were disputing. But after receiving the clarity, the people
disputed in it due to animosity between them. And God guided those who
believed with His permission regarding what they disputed in of the
truth. And God guides whoever He wishes to a straight path.

(2:214) Or did you expect that you would enter the Paradise, while the
example of those who were before you came to you; they were stricken
with adversity and hardship, and they were shaken until the messenger
and those who believed with him said: "When is the victory of God?"
Yes indeed, the victory of God is near.

(2:215) They ask you what they should spend, say: "What you spend out
of goodness should go to your family and the relatives and the
orphans, and the needy, and the wayfarer. And any good you do, God is
fully aware of it."

(2:216) Warfare has been decreed for you while you hate it; and
perhaps you may hate something while it is good for you, and perhaps
you may love something while it is bad for you; and God knows while
you do not know.

(2:217) They ask you about the restricted month: "Is there fighting in
it?" Say: "Much fighting is in it, and to repel from the path of God
and to disbelieve in it, and the Restricted Temple, to drive its
inhabitants out from it is far greater with God, and persecution is
worse than being killed." And they still will fight you until they
turn you back from your system if they are able. And whoever of you
turns back from his system, and he dies while disbelieving, then these
have nullified their works in this world and the next; these are the
people of the Fire, in it they will abide!

(2:218) Those who believe, and those who have immigrated and strived
in the cause of God; these are seeking the mercy of God; and God is
Forgiving, Merciful.

(2:219) They ask you about alcohol and gambling. Say: "In them is
great harm, and a benefit for the people; but their harm is greater
than their benefit." And they ask you how much they are to give, say:
"The excess." It is thus that God clarifies for you the revelations
that you may think.

(2:220) In this world and the next; and they ask you regarding the
orphans, say: "To fix their situation is best, and if you are to care
for them, then they are your brothers." And God knows the corrupt from
the good, and if God had wished He could have made things
difficult. God is Noble, Wise.

(2:221) And do not marry the female polytheists until they
believe. For a believing female servant is better than a polytheist
even if she attracts you. And do not marry the male polytheists until
they believe. For a believing male servant is better than a polytheist
even if he attracts you. Those invite to the Fire, while God is
inviting to the Paradise and forgiveness by His consent. He clarifies
His revelations for the people that they may remember.

(2:222) And they ask you about the menstruations? Say: "It is harmful,
so retire yourselves sexually from the women during the menstruations,
and do not approach them until they are cleansed. When they are
cleansed, then you may approach them as God has commanded you." God
loves the repenters and He loves the cleansed.

(2:223) Your women are a cultivation for you. So approach your
cultivation as you wish towards goodness. And be aware of God and know
that you will meet Him, and give good news to the believers.

(2:224) And do not make God the subject of your casual oaths. Be pious
and righteous and reconcile among the people; and God is Hearer,
Knower.

(2:225) God will not call you to account for your casual oaths, but He
will call you to account for what has entered your hearts. God is
Forgiving, Compassionate.

(2:226) For those who abstain from their wives, they shall be given
four months. If they cease, then God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(2:227) And if they insist on the divorce, then God is Hearer,
Knowledgeable.

(2:228) And those divorced shall wait for three menstruation periods;
and it is not lawful for them to conceal what God has created in their
wombs, if they believe in God and the Last Day. And their husbands
would then have just cause to return together, if they both wish to
reconcile. And the obligations owed to them are to be fulfilled, as
are the obligations owed by them. But the men will have a greater
responsibility over them in this. And God is Noble, Wise.

(2:229) The divorce is allowed twice. So, either they remain together
equitably, or they part ways with goodness. And it is not lawful for
you to take back anything you have given them unless you fear that
they will not uphold the boundaries of God. So if you fear that they
will not uphold the boundaries of God, then there is no sin upon them
for what is given back. These are the boundaries of God so do not
transgress them. And whoever shall transgress the boundaries of God,
then these are the wicked.

(2:230) So if he divorces her again, then she will not be lawful for
him until after she has married a different husband; if he divorces
her; then there is no sin that they come back together if they think
they will uphold the boundaries of God. These are the boundaries of
God, He clarifies them for a people who know.

(2:231) And if you have divorced the women, and they have reached
their required interim period, then either you remain together
equitably, or part ways equitably. And do not reconcile with them so
you can harm them out of animosity; whoever does so is doing wrong to
his soul; and do not take the revelations of God as mockery. And
remember the blessings of God upon you, and what was sent down to you
of the Book and the wisdom, He warns you with it. And be aware of God
and know that God is knowledgeable of all things.

(2:232) And if you divorce the women, and they reach their required
interim period, then do not make difficulty for them if they wish to
remarry their husbands if they have amicably agreed among themselves
out of what is best. This is to remind any of you who believe in God
and the Last Day, this is better for you and purer; and God knows
while you do not know.

(2:233) And the divorced mothers are allowed to suckle their children
two full years, if they wish to complete the suckling. And the man for
whom the child is born is responsible for both their provisions and
clothing equitably. A soul is not burdened except with what it can
bear. No mother shall be harmed because of her child, nor shall a
father be harmed because of his child. And for the guardian is the
same requirement. So if they wish to separate out of mutual agreement
and counsel, then there is no sin upon them. And if you want to hire
nursing mothers, then there is no sin upon you if you return what you
have been given equitably. And be aware of God, and know that God is
watching over what you do.

(2:234) And for those of you whose lives are terminated and they leave
widows behind, then their widows will have a required interim period
of four months and ten. So when they reach their required interim,
then there is no sin upon you for what they do with themselves in
goodness. And God is Expert to what you do.

(2:235) And there is no sin upon you if you openly propose marriage to
the women, or you keep it between yourselves. God knows that you will
be thinking about them, but do not meet them secretly, unless you have
something righteous to say. And do not finalize the marriage contract
until the book interim is reached. And know that God knows what is in
your souls, so be aware of Him, and know that God is Forgiving,
Compassionate.

(2:236) There is no sin upon you if you divorce the women before
having sexual intercourse with them, or before setting the dowry for
them. Let them have recompense, the rich according to his means, and
the poor according to his means. A recompense in kindness, a
responsibility for the good doers.

(2:237) And if you divorce them before having sexual intercourse with
them, but you have already set the dowry for them; then you must give
half of what you have agreed, unless they forgive or the guardian over
the marriage contract forgives. And if you forgive, it is closer to
righteousness. And do not forget the favor between you; God is Seer of
what you do.

(2:238) Maintain the contact prayers; and the middle contact prayer;
and stand for God dutifully.

(2:239) But if you are fearful, then you may do so while walking or
riding. If you become secure, then remember God as He has taught you
what you did not know.

(2:240) And for those of you whose lives are terminated and they leave
widows behind; a testimony to them that they may enjoy for one year
without being made to vacate. If they leave then there is no sin upon
you for what they do with themselves of goodness; and God is Noble,
Wise.

(2:241) And for those divorced to have a recompense is an obligation
upon the righteous.

(2:242) It is such that God clarifies for you His revelations that you
may comprehend.

(2:243) Did you not see those who left their homes in groups, all the
while they were fearful of death; so God said to them: "Die," then He
resurrected them. God has bestowed a great grace over the people, but
most of the people are not thankful.

(2:244) And fight in the cause of God and know that God is the Hearer,
the Knowledgeable.

(2:245) Who will lend God a loan of righteousness that He may multiply
it for him many times over? God collects and He distributes, and to
Him you will return.

(2:246) Did you not note the leaders of the Children of Israel after
Moses, they said to their prophet: "Send us a king that we may fight
in the cause of God;" he said: "Are you not concerned that if fighting
is decreed for you, you will then not fight?" They said: "And why
should we not fight in the cause of God when we have been expelled
from our homes along with our children." So it was, that when fighting
was decreed for them they turned away, except for a few of them! God
is fully aware of the wicked.

(2:247) And their prophet said to them: "God has sent Saul to you as a
king." They said: "How can he have the kingship when we are more
deserving than him, and he has not been given an abundance of wealth?"
He said: "God has chosen him over you and increased him in knowledge
and physical stature." God grants His sovereignty to whom He chooses;
and God is Encompassing, Knowledgeable.

(2:248) And their prophet said to them: "The sign of his kingship
shall be that he brings to you the ark in which there is tranquility
from your Lord and the legacy of what was left behind by the
descendants of Moses and the descendants of Aaron being carried by the
angels. In this is a sign for you if you are believers."

(2:249) So when Saul set out with the soldiers, he said: "God will
test you with a river, whoever drinks from it is not with me, and
whoever does not taste from it except one scoop with his hand is with
me." They all drank from it, except for a few of them. So when he and
those who believed with him crossed it, they said: "We have no power
today against Goliath and his soldiers!" But the ones who understood
that they would meet God said: "How many a time has a small group
beaten a large group with the permission of God, and God is with the
patient ones!"

(2:250) And when they came forth to Goliath and his soldiers, they
said: "Our Lord grant us patience, and make firm our foothold, and
grant us victory over the disbelieving people."

(2:251) So they defeated them with the permission of God, and David
killed Goliath, and God gave him the kingship and the wisdom and
taught him what he wished. And if it were not for God defending the
people against themselves, then the earth would have long been
corrupted; but God has bestowed grace upon the worlds.

(2:252) These are the revelations of God, We recite them to you with
the truth, and you are one of the messengers.

(2:253) Such messengers, We have preferred some over others; some of
them talked to God, and He raised some of them in rank, and We gave
Jesus, son of Mary, the clear proofs and We supported him with the
Holy Spirit. And had God wished, the people after them would not have
fought after the proofs had come to them, but they disputed, some of
them believed and some of them rejected. If God had wished they would
not have fought, but God does what He pleases.

(2:254) O you who believe, spend from what We have provided for you
before a Day comes when there is no trade, nor friendship, nor
intercession; and the rejecters are the wicked.

(2:255) God, there is no god except He, the Living, the Sustainer. No
slumber or sleep overtakes Him; to Him belongs all that is in the
heavens and the earth. Who will intercede with Him except with His
permission? He knows their present and their future, and they do not
have any of His knowledge except for what He wishes. His Throne
encompasses all of the heavens and the earth and it is easy for Him to
preserve them. He is the Most High, the Great.

(2:256) There is no compulsion in the system; the proper way has been
clarified from the wrong way. Whoever rejects evil, and believes in
God, indeed he has taken grasp of the strongest hold that will never
break. God is Hearer, Knower.

(2:257) God is the ally of those who believe, He brings them out of
the darkness and into the light. As for those who reject, their allies
are the evil ones, they bring them out of the light and into the
darkness; these are the people of the Fire, in it they will abide.

(2:258) Have you not noted him who debated with Abraham regarding his
Lord, while God had given him a kingship? Abraham said: "My Lord is
the One who gives life and death," he said: "I bring life and death."
Abraham said: "God brings the sun from the east, so you bring it from
the west." The one who rejected was baffled! And God does not guide
the wicked people.

(2:259) Or the one who passed through a town which had become
ruins. He said: "How can God possibly revive this after it had died?"
So God put him to death for one hundred years, then He resurrected
him. He said: "How long have you stayed here?" He said: "I have stayed
here a day or part of a day." He said: "No, you have stayed here for
one hundred years! Look at your food and drink, they have not changed,
but look at your donkey! And We will make you a sign for the people;
and look at the bones how We expand them, then We cover them with
flesh." So when it was clear to him what happened, he said: "I now
know that God is capable of all things!"

(2:260) And Abraham said: "My Lord, show me how you resurrect the
dead." He said: "Do you not already believe?" He said: "I do, but it
is so my heart can be relieved." He said: "Choose four birds, then cut
them, then place parts of the birds on each mountain, then call them
to you; they will come racing towards you. And know that God is Noble,
Wise."

(2:261) The example of those who spend their money in the cause of God
is like a seed that sprouts forth seven pods, in each pod there is one
hundred seeds; and God multiplies for whoever He chooses, and God is
Encompassing, Knowledgeable.

(2:262) Those who spend their money in the cause of God, then they do
not follow what they have spent with either insult or harm; they will
have their recompense with their Lord, there is no fear over them nor
will they grieve.

(2:263) Kind words and forgiveness are far better than a charity that
is followed by harm. God is Rich, Compassionate.

(2:264) O you who believe, do not nullify your charities with insult
and harm; like the one who spends his money in vanity to show off to
the people, and he does not believe in God and the Last Day. His
example is like a stone on which there is dust, then it is subjected
to a heavy rain which leaves it bare. They cannot do anything with
what they have earned; and God does not guide the rejecting people.

(2:265) And the example of those who spend their money seeking the
grace of God, and to save their souls, is like the example of a garden
that is on a high ground and is subjected to a heavy rain, and because
of that it produces double its crop. And if no heavy rain comes, then
it still gives enough. And God is Seer of what you do.

(2:266) Does anyone of you desire that he have an estate with palm
trees and grapevines, and rivers flowing beneath it, and in it for him
are all kinds of fruits, then he is afflicted with old age and his
progeny is weak, and a firestorm strikes it and it all burns? It is
thus that God makes clear for you the signs that you may reflect.

(2:267) O you who believe, spend from the good things that you have
earned, and from what We have brought forth from the earth. And do not
select the rotten out of it to give, while you would not take it
yourselves unless you closed your eyes regarding it. And know that God
is Rich, Praiseworthy.

(2:268) The devil promises you poverty and orders you to immorality,
while God promises forgiveness from Him and grace. God is
Encompassing, Knowledgeable.

(2:269) He grants wisdom to whom He chooses, and whoever is granted
wisdom has been given much good. Only those who possess intelligence
will remember.

(2:270) And whatever you spend out of your monies, or whatever you
pledge as a promise, then God knows it. The wicked have no supporters.

(2:271) If you openly give charities, then it is acceptable; but if
you conceal them and give them to the poor, then that is better for
you. And He cancels some of your sins; and God is Expert to all that
you do.

(2:272) You are not responsible for their guidance, but it is God who
will guide whoever He wishes. And whatever you spend out of goodness
is for your own souls. And anything you spend should be in seeking the
face of God. And whatever you spend out of goodness will be returned
to you, and you will not be wronged.

(2:273) For the poor who face hardship in the cause of God, they
cannot go forth in the land; the ignorant ones think they are rich
from their modesty; you know them by their features, they do not ask
the people repeatedly. And what you spend out of goodness, God is
fully aware of it.

(2:274) Those who spend their money in the night and in the day,
secretly and openly, they will have their recompense with their Lord,
there is no fear over them nor will they grieve.

(2:275) Those who consume usury do not rise except as one being
influenced by the touch of the devil. That is because they have said:
"Trade is the same as usury." While God has made trade lawful, and He
has made usury unlawful. Whoever has received understanding from His
Lord and ceases, then he will be forgiven for what was before this and
his case will be with God. But whoever returns, then they are the
people of the Fire, in it they will abide.

(2:276) God condemns usury, and He grants growth to the charities. And
God does not love any wicked sinner.

(2:277) Those who believe and do good works, and hold the contact
prayer, and contribute towards purification; they will have their
recompense with their Lord and there is no fear over them nor will
they grieve.

(2:278) O you who believe, be aware of God and give up what is left
from usury, if you are truly believers.

(2:279) And if you will not do this, then be informed of a war from
God and His messenger; but if you repent, then you will have back your
principal money, you will not be wronged nor will you wrong.

(2:280) If the person is facing insolvency, then you shall wait until
he becomes able. And if you relinquish it as a charity it is better
for you if only you knew.

(2:281) And be aware of a Day when you will be returned to God then
every soul will be paid what it has earned, and they will not be
wronged.

(2:282) O you who believe, if you borrow for a future period, then you
shall record it. And let a scribe of justice record it for you; and
let not the scribe refuse to record as God has taught him. Let him
record and let the person who is borrowing dictate to him, and let him
be aware of God, and let him not reduce from it anything. If the one
who is borrowing is immature or weak or he cannot dictate himself,
then let his guardian dictate with justice; and bring two witnesses
from among your men; if there are not two men, then a man and two
women from whom you will accept their testimony, so that if one of
them becomes blindsided, then the one can remind the other. And let
the witnesses not refuse to come if they are called. And do not fail
to record it no matter how small or large until its maturity. That is
more just with God and better for the testimony, and better that you
do not have doubts; except if it is a trade to be done on the spot
between you, then there is no sin upon you if you do not record
it. And have evidence if you trade. No scribe shall be harmed nor any
witness; for if you do so then it is a wickedness on your part, and be
aware of God and God teaches you and God is aware of all things.

(2:283) And if you are traveling or do not find a scribe, then a
pledge of collateral. So, if you have entrusted each other in this
manner, then let the one who was entrusted deliver his trust, and let
him be aware of God his Lord. And do not hold back the testimony. And
whoever holds it back, then he has sinned in his heart, and God is
aware of what you do.

(2:284) To God is what is in the heavens and in earth, and whether you
declare what is in your souls or hide it, God will call you to account
for it. He will forgive whom He wishes, and punish whom He wishes, and
God is capable of all things.

(2:285) The messenger believes in what was sent down to him from his
Lord; and the believers, all who believe in God, and His angels, and
His Books, and His messengers: "We do not make a distinction between
any of His messengers;" and they said: "We hear and obey, forgive us
our Lord, and to you is our destiny."

(2:286) God does not burden a soul except with what it can bear. For
it is what it earns, and against it is what it earns. "Our Lord, do
not mind us if we forget or make mistakes; our Lord, do not place a
burden upon us as You have placed upon those before us; our Lord, do
not place upon us what we cannot bear; pardon us, and forgive us, and
have mercy on us; You are our patron, so grant us victory over the
disbelieving people."














