(20:1) T'H'

(20:2) We did not send down to you the Qur'an so you may suffer.

(20:3) It is but a reminder for he who is concerned.

(20:4) Sent down from the One who has created the earth and the
heavens above.

(20:5) The Almighty, upon the Throne He settled.

(20:6) To Him is what is in the heavens and what is on the earth, and
what is between them, and what is beneath the ground.

(20:7) And if you will declare openly what you say, then surely He
knows the secret and what is hidden.

(20:8) God, there is no god except He, to Him are the beautiful names.

(20:9) And did the narrative of Moses come to you?

(20:10) When he saw a fire, he said to his family: "Stay here, I have
seen a fire, perhaps I can bring a piece from it, or find at the fire
some guidance."

(20:11) So when he came to it he was called: "O Moses."

(20:12) "I am your Lord, so take off your slippers; you are in the
holy valley Tuwa."

(20:13) "And I have chosen you, so listen to what is being inspired."

(20:14) "I am God, there is no god except Me, so serve Me and hold the
contact prayer for My remembrance."

(20:15) "The Hour is coming, I am nearly keeping it hidden, so that
every soul will be recompensed with what it strived."

(20:16) "So do not be deterred from it by he who does not believe in
it and followed his desire and perished."

(20:17) "And what is in your right hand O Moses?"

(20:18) He said: "It is my staff, I lean on it, and I guide my sheep
with it, and I have other uses in it."

(20:19) He said: "Cast it down O Moses."

(20:20) So he cast it down, and it became a moving serpent!

(20:21) He said: "Take it and do not be fearful, We will turn it back
to its previous form."

(20:22) "And place your hand under your arm, it will come out white
without blemish, as another sign."

(20:23) "This is to show you Our great signs."

(20:24) "Go to Pharaoh, for he has transgressed."

(20:25) He said: "My Lord, comfort for me my chest."

(20:26) "And make my mission easy."

(20:27) "And remove the knot in my tongue."

(20:28) "So they can understand what I say."

(20:29) "And allow for me an advisor from my family."

(20:30) "Aaron, my brother."

(20:31) "So that I may strengthen my resolve through him."

(20:32) "And share with him my mission."

(20:33) "So that we may glorify You plenty."

(20:34) "And remember You plenty."

(20:35) "You Have been seer over us."

(20:36) He said: "You have been given what you asked O Moses."

(20:37) "And We have graced you another time."

(20:38) "When We inspired to your mother what was inspired."

(20:39) "That she should cast him in the basket, and cast the basket
in the sea, so the sea will place him on the shore, where an enemy of
Mine and his will take him. And I placed upon you a love from Me. And
that you shall be raised under My eye."

(20:40) "That your sister should follow, and say: 'Shall I guide you
to a person who will nurse him.' Thus We returned you to your mother,
so that she may be pleased and not be sad. And you killed a person,
but We saved you from harm and We tested you greatly. So it was that
you stayed with the people of Midyan for many years, then you came
here by fate O Moses."

(20:41) "And I Have raised you for Myself."

(20:42) "Go, you and your brother with Our signs, and do not linger
from My remembrance."

(20:43) "Go, both of you, to Pharaoh, for he has transgressed."

(20:44) "So say to him soft words, perhaps he will remember or be
concerned."

(20:45) They said: "Our Lord, we fear that he would let loose upon us,
or transgress."

(20:46) He said: "Do not fear, I am with you, I hear and I see."

(20:47) So come to him and say: "We are messengers from your Lord, so
send with us the Children of Israel, and do not punish them. We have
come to you with a sign from your Lord, and peace be upon those who
follow the guidance."

(20:48) "It has been inspired to us that the retribution will be upon
he who denies and turns away."

(20:49) He said: "So who is the lord of you both O Moses?"

(20:50) He said: "Our Lord is the One who gave everything its
creation, then guided."

(20:51) He said: "What then has happened to the previous generations?"

(20:52) He said: "The knowledge of it is with my Lord, in a record. My
Lord does not err or forget."

(20:53) The One who made for you the earth habitable and He made ways
for you in it, and He brought down water from the sky, so We brought
out with it pairs of vegetation of all types.

(20:54) Eat and raise your livestock, in that are signs for those of
thought.

(20:55) From it We created you and in it We return you, and from it We
bring you out another time.

(20:56) And We showed him Our signs, all of them, but he denied and
refused.

(20:57) He said: "Have you come to us to take us out of our land with
your magic O Moses?"

(20:58) "We will bring you a magic like it, so let us make an
appointment between us and you which neither of us will break, a place
where we both agree."

(20:59) He said: "Your appointment is the day of festival, and when
the people start crowding during the late morning."

(20:60) So Pharaoh went away, and he gathered his plan then he came.

(20:61) Moses said to them: "Woe to you, do not invent lies about God,
else the retribution will take you, and miserable is the one who
invents."

(20:62) So they disputed in their matter between themselves, and they
kept private their counsel.

(20:63) They said: "These are but two magicians who want to take you
out of your land with their magic, and they want to do away with your
ideal way."

(20:64) "So agree your plan, then come as one front. Whoever wins
today will succeed."

(20:65) They said: "O Moses, either you cast down or we will be the
first to cast down."

(20:66) He said: "You cast down." So their ropes and staffs appeared
from their magic as if they were moving.

(20:67) And Moses held some fear in himself.

(20:68) We said: "Do not fear, you will best them."

(20:69) "And cast down what is in your right hand it will consume what
they have made. They have only made the plans of a magician, and the
magician will not succeed no matter what he does."

(20:70) So the magicians went down in prostration. They said: "We
believe in the Lord of Aaron and Moses."

(20:71) He said: "Have you believed to him before taking my
permission? He is surely your great one who has taught you magic. So,
I will cut off your hands and feet from alternate sides, and I will
crucify you on the trunks of the palm trees, and you will come to know
which of us is greater in retribution and more lasting!"

(20:72) They said: "We will not prefer you over the proofs that have
come to us, and over the One who initiated us. So issue whatever
judgment you have, for you only issue judgment in this worldly life."

(20:73) "We have believed in our Lord that He may forgive us our
wrongdoings, and what you had forced us into doing of magic; and God
is better and more lasting."

(20:74) He who comes to his Lord as a criminal, he will have Hell,
where he will neither die in it nor live.

(20:75) And he who comes to Him as a believer doing good works, for
those will be the highest ranks.

(20:76) Gardens of delight, with rivers flowing beneath them, abiding
therein. Such is the reward of he who is developed.

(20:77) And We inspired to Moses: "Take My servants out, and strike
for them a path through the sea that is dry. You shall not fear being
overtaken, nor be concerned."

(20:78) So Pharaoh followed them with his soldiers, but the sea
came-over them and covered them.

(20:79) Thus, Pharaoh misled his people and he did not guide.

(20:80) O Children of Israel, We have saved you from your enemy, and
We summoned you at the right side of the mount, and We sent down to
you manna and quail.

(20:81) Eat from the good things that We have provided for you and do
not transgress in this else My wrath will be upon you. Whoever has
incurred My wrath is lost.

(20:82) And I am forgiving for whoever repents and does good works,
then is guided.

(20:83) "And what has caused you to rush ahead of your people O
Moses?"

(20:84) He said: "They are coming in my tracks, and I came quickly to
you my Lord so you would be pleased."

(20:85) He said: "We have tested your people after you left, and the
Sumerian misguided them."

(20:86) So Moses returned to his people angry and disappointed. He
said: "My people, did not your Lord promise you a good promise? Has
the waiting for the pledge been too long, or did you want that the
wrath of your Lord be upon you? Thus you broke the promise with me."

(20:87) They said: "We did not break the promise by our own will, but
we were loaded down with the jewelry of the people so we cast them
down, and it was such that the Sumerian suggested."

(20:88) He then produced for them a sculpture of a calf that emitted a
cry. So they said: "This is your god and the god of Moses, but he had
forgotten!"

(20:89) Did they not see that it did not respond to them? Nor did it
possess for them any harm or benefit?

(20:90) And Aaron said to them before: "My people, you are being
tested with it. Your Lord is the Almighty, so follow me and obey my
command!"

(20:91) They said: "We will remain devoted to it until Moses comes
back to us."

(20:92) He said: "O Aaron, what prevented you when you saw them being
astray?"

(20:93) "Do you not follow me? Have you disobeyed my command?"

(20:94) He said: "O son of my mother, do not grab me by my beard nor
by my head. I was concerned that you would say that I separated
between the Children of Israel, and that I did not follow your
orders."

(20:95) He said: "So what do you have to say O Sumerian?"

(20:96) He said: "I noticed what they did not notice, so I took a
handful from where the messenger was standing, and I cast it in. This
is what my soul inspired me to do."

(20:97) He said: "Then be gone, for you will have it in this life to
say: "I am not to be touched" And you will have an appointed time
which you will not forsake. And look to your god that you remained
devoted to, we will burn him, then we will destroy him in the sea
completely."

(20:98) Surely your god is God; for which there is no god except
He. His knowledge encompasses all things.

(20:99) And it is such that We tell to you the news of whathas
passed. And We have given you from Us a remembrance.

(20:100) Whoever turns away from it, then he will carry a load on the
Day of Resurrection.

(20:101) They will remain therein; and miserable for them on the Day
of Resurrection is what they carry.

(20:102) The Day the horn is blown, and We gather the criminals on
that Day white eyed.

(20:103) They whisper among themselves: "You have only been away for a
period of ten."

(20:104) We are fully aware of what they say, for the best among them
will say: "No, you have only been away for a day."

(20:105) And they ask you about the mountains, so say: "My Lord will
annihilate them completely."

(20:106) "Then He will leave it as a smooth plain."

(20:107) "You will not see in it any crookedness or curves."

(20:108) On that Day, they will follow the caller, there is no
crookedness to him. And all voices will be humbled for the Almighty,
you will not be able to hear except whispers.

(20:109) On that Day, no intercession will be of help, except for he
whom the Almighty allows and accepts what he has to say.

(20:110) He knows their present and their future, and they do not have
any of His knowledge.

(20:111) And the faces shall be humbled for the Eternal, the
Living. And whoever carried wickedness with him has failed.

(20:112) And whoever does any good works, while he is a believer, then
he should not fear injustice nor being given less than his due.

(20:113) And it was such that We sent it down an Arabic revelation,
and We dispatched in it the warnings, perhaps they will become aware
or it will cause them to remember.

(20:114) Then High above all is God, the King, the True. And do not be
hasty with the Qur'an before its inspiration is completed to you, and
say: "My Lord, increase my knowledge."

(20:115) And We had entrusted to Adam from before, but heforgot, and
We did not find in him the will power.

(20:116) And We said to the angels: "Yield to Adam." They all yielded
except for Satan, he refused.

(20:117) So We said: "O Adam, this is an enemy to you and your
mate. So do not let him take you out from the paradise, else you will
have hardship."

(20:118) "You will have in it that you will not go hungry nor need
clothes."

(20:119) "And you will have in it that you will not go thirsty nor
suffer from heat."

(20:120) But the devil whispered to him, he said: "O Adam, shall I
lead you to the tree of immortality and a kingdom which will not waste
away?"

(20:121) So they both ate from it, and their bodies became apparent to
them, and they began to place leaves on themselves from the
paradise. Adam had disobeyed his Lord, and had gone astray.

(20:122) Then his Lord recalled him, and He forgave him, and gave
guidance to him.

(20:123) He said: "Descend from this, all of you, for you are enemies
to one another. So, when My guidance comes to you, then, whoever
follows My guidance, he will not go astray nor suffer."

(20:124) "And whoever turns away from My remembrance, then he will
have a miserable life, and We will raise him blind on the Day of
Resurrection."

(20:125) He said: "My Lord, you have raised me blind while I used to
be able to see?"

(20:126) He said: "It was the same when Our revelations came to you,
you forgot them, and similarly today you will be forgotten."

(20:127) And it is such that We recompense he who transgresses, and
did not believe in the revelations of his Lord. And the retribution of
the Hereafter is more severe and more lasting.

(20:128) Is it not a guide to them how many generations We had
destroyed before them, which they are walking now in their homes? In
that are signs for the people of understanding.

(20:129) And had it not been for a word already given by your Lord,
they would have been held to account immediately.

(20:130) So be patient to what they are saying and glorify the grace
of your Lord before the rising of the sun, and before its setting, and
at the approach of the night - you shall glorify - and at parts of the
day, perhaps you may be content.

(20:131) And do not crave with your eyes what We have bestowed upon
some couples from them; the flower of the worldly life; so as to test
them in it; and the provision of your Lord is better and more lasting.

(20:132) And instruct your family to the contact prayer, and be
patient for it. We do not ask you for provision, for We provide for
you. And the ending will be for righteousness.

(20:133) And they said: "If only he would bring us a sign from his
Lord!" Did not proof come to them from what is in the previous
scripts?

(20:134) And if We had destroyed them with a retribution before this,
they would have said: "Our Lord, if only You had sent us a messenger
so we could follow Your revelations before we are humiliated and
shamed!"

(20:135) Say: "All are waiting, so wait, and you will come to know who
are the people upon the even path and who are guided."














