(22:1) Opeople, be aware of your Lord, for the quaking of the Hour is
a terrible thing.

(22:2) The moment you see it, every nursing mother will leave her
suckling child, and every pregnant one will miscarry, and you will see
the people intoxicated while they are not intoxicated, but the
retribution of God is most severe.

(22:3) And from the people is he who argues regarding God without
knowledge, and he follows every rebellious devil.

(22:4) Itwas decreed for him that any who follow him, he will mislead
him, and guide him to the retribution of Fire.

(22:5) O people, if you are in doubt as to the resurrection, then We
have created you from dust, then from a seed, then from an embryo,
then from a fetus developed and undeveloped so that We make it clear
to you. And We settle in the wombs what We wish to an appointed time,
then We bring you out a child, then you reach your maturity, and of
you are those who will pass away, and of you are those who are sent to
an old age where he will not be able to learn any new knowledge after
what he already has. And you see the land still, but when We send down
the water to it, it vibrates and grows, and it brings forth of every
lovely pair.

(22:6) That is because God is the truth, and He gives life to the
dead, and He is capable of all things.

(22:7) And the Hour is coming, there is no doubt in it, and God will
resurrect those who are in the graves.

(22:8) And from the people are those who argue regarding God with no
knowledge nor guidance nor enlightening Book.

(22:9) Bending his side to misguide from the path of God. He will have
humiliation in the world and We will make him taste on the Day of
Resurrection the retribution of burning.

(22:10) That is for what your hands have delivered, and God does not
wrong the servants.

(22:11) Andfrom the people there is he who serves God nervously. So if
good comes to him, he is content with it; and if an ordeal comes to
him, he makes an about-face. He has lost this world and the
Hereafter. Such is the clear loss.

(22:12) He calls upon besides God what will not harm him and what will
not benefit him. Such is the far straying.

(22:13) He calls on those who harm him more than they benefit
him. What a miserable patron, and what a miserable companion.

(22:14) Godadmits those who believe and do good works to estates with
rivers flowing beneath them. God does as He wishes.

(22:15) Whoever thinks that God will not grant him victory in this
world and the Hereafter, then let him extend his reasons to the
heavens, then let him cease and see whether this action has removed
the cause of his anger.

(22:16) Andas such, We have sent down clear revelations, and God
guides whoever He wishes.

(22:17) Surely those who believe; and those who are Jewish, and the
Sabians, and the Nazarenes, and the Majoos; and those who were
polytheists; God will separate between them on the Day of
Resurrection. For God is witness over all things.

(22:18) Didyou not see that to God yields what is in the heavens and
what is on the earth, and the sun and the moon and the stars and the
mountains and the trees and what moves, and many of the people, and
many who have deserved the retribution. And whoever God disgraces,
then none can honor him. God does what He pleases.

(22:19) Here are two opponents who have disputed regarding their Lord;
as for those who rejected, outer garments made from fire are cut out
for them, and boiling water is poured from above their heads.

(22:20) It melts the inside of their bellies and their skin.

(22:21) Andthey will have hooked rods of iron.

(22:22) Every time they want to escape the anguish, they are returned
to it. Taste the retribution of the burning!

(22:23) Godwill admit those who believe and do good works to estates
with rivers flowing beneath them, wherein they will be adorned with
bracelets of gold and pearls, and their garments will be of silk.

(22:24) Andthey are guided to the good sayings, and guided to the path
of the Praiseworthy.

(22:25) Surely, those who have rejected and repel from the path of
God, and from the Restricted Temple that We have made for the people -
for the one devoted therein and the one who visits it - and whoever
inclines to evil action in it, We will let them taste a painful
retribution.

(22:26) And We have appointed to Abraham the location of the
Sanctuary: "Do not set up anyone with Me, and purify My Sanctuary for
those who visit, and those who are standing, and the kneeling, the
prostrating."

(22:27) Andcall out to the people with the Pilgrimage, they will come
to you walking and on every transport, they will come from every deep
enclosure.

(22:28) So that they may witness benefits for themselves, and mention
the name of God in the appointed days over what He has provided for
them of the animal livestock. So eat from it and feed the needy and
the poor.

(22:29) Then let them complete their duties and fulfill their vows,
and let them traverse at the ancient Sanctuary.

(22:30) Thus, and whoever honors the restrictions of God, then it is
better for him with His Lord. And the livestock has been made lawful
for you; except what is being recited to you; so avoid the taint of
idols and avoid saying false statements.

(22:31) Monotheists to God, not setting up anything with Him. And
whoever sets up partners with God, then it is as if he has fallen from
the sky and the birds snatch him or the wind takes him to a place far
off.

(22:32) Thus, and whoever honors the symbols of God, then it is from
the piety of the hearts.

(22:33) In them are benefits to an appointed time, then their place is
to the ancient Sanctuary.

(22:34) Andfor every nation We have established rites that they may
mention the name of God over what He has provided for them of the
animal livestock. Your god is One god; submit to Him and give good
tidings to those who obey.

(22:35) Those who, when God is mentioned, their hearts reverence, and
they are patient to what befalls them, and they hold the contact
prayer, and from what We provide them they spend.

(22:36) And the plump livestock, We have made them for you to be among
the symbols of God; you will have benefit in them. So mention the name
of God upon them in succession; then, once their sides have become
still, you may eat from them and feed with them the poor and the
needy. It was thus that We have made them in service to you, that you
may be thankful.

(22:37) Neither their meat nor their blood reaches God, but what
reaches Him is the righteousness from you. It was thus that He made
them in service to you, so that you may magnify God for what He has
guided you to, and give news to the good doers.

(22:38) Goddefends those who believe. God does not love any betrayer,
rejecter.

(22:39) Permission has been given to those who are being fought - for
they have been wronged. And God is able to give them victory.

(22:40) The ones who were driven out of their homes without justice,
except that they said: "Our Lord is God!" And if it were not for God
defending the people against themselves, then many places of
gathering, and markets, and contact prayers, and temples where the
name of God is frequently mentioned, would have been destroyed. God
will give victory to those who support Him. God is Powerful, Noble.

(22:41) Those whom, if We allow them to have authority in the land,
they hold the contact prayer, and they contribute towards
purification, and they prohibit vice. And to God is the conclusion of
all matters.

(22:42) Andif they deny you, then before them the people of Noah and
'Aad and Thamud had also denied.

(22:43) Andthe people of Abraham and the people of Lot.

(22:44) Andthe dwellers of Midyan; and Moses was denied. So I granted
respite to the rejecters then I took them, how then was My punishment?

(22:45) So how many a town have We destroyed while it was doing wrong,
so that it is lying in ruins with its wells abandoned, and empty
palaces.

(22:46) Have they not roamed the earth and had hearts with which to
comprehend and ears with which to hear? No, it is not the sight which
is blind, but it is the hearts that are in the chests that are blind.

(22:47) Andthey seek you to hasten the retribution; and God will not
break His promise. And a day with your Lord is like one thousand of
the years which you count.

(22:48) Andmany a town I have given it respite while it was doing
wrong, then I seized it! And to Me is the destiny.

(22:49) Say: "O people, I am but a clear warner to you!"

(22:50) As for those who believe and do good works, for them is a
forgiveness and a great provision.

(22:51) Andthose who seek to obstruct Our revelations, those are the
dwellers of Hell.

(22:52) AndWe did not send before you any messenger or prophet,
without having the devil interfere with his wishes. God then
duplicates what the devil has cast, and God secures His
revelations. And God is Knower, Wise.

(22:53) That He may make what the devil has cast as a test for those
who have a disease in their hearts and those whose hearts are
hardened. And the wicked are far away in opposition.

(22:54) Andto let those who have been given knowledge knowthat it is
the truth from your Lord, and they will believe in it, and their
hearts will soften to it. And God will guide those who believe to a
straight path.

(22:55) Andthose who have rejected will remain to be in doubt from it
until the Hour comes to them suddenly, or the retribution of a barren
Day comes to them.

(22:56) Thesovereignty on that Day is to God, He will judge between
them. So as for those who have believed and did good works, they are
in gardens of bliss.

(22:57) And those who rejected and disbelieved Our revelations, those
will have a humiliating retribution.

(22:58) Andthose who emigrated in the cause of God, then they were
killed or died, God will provide them with a good provision, and God
is the best of providers.

(22:59) He will admit them an entrance that they will be pleased with,
and God is Knowledgeable, Compassionate.

(22:60) It is decreed that whoever retaliates with equal measure as
was retaliated against him, then he was persecuted for this, God will
give him victory. God is Pardoning, Forgiving.

(22:61) That is because God merges the night into the day, and He
merges the day into the night. And God is Hearer, Seer.

(22:62) That is because God is the truth, and what they call on
besides Him is falsehood. And God is the Most High, the Great.

(22:63) Didyou not see that God sends down water from the sky, and
then the land becomes green? God is Compassionate, Expert.

(22:64) To Him is what is in the heavens and what is on the earth. And
God is the Rich, the Praiseworthy.

(22:65) Didyou not see that God commits to you what is on the earth?
And the ships sail in the sea with His permission. And He holds the
sky so that it would not collapse upon the earth, except by His
permission. Indeed, God is Kind towards the people, Merciful.

(22:66) He is the One who gave you life, then He makes you die, then
He gives you life. But man is always rejecting!

(22:67) Forevery nation We have established rites which they are to
fulfill. So do not let the matter fall into dispute. And call upon
your Lord, for you are on a guidance which is straight.

(22:68) Andif they argue with you, then say: "God is fully aware of
what you do."

(22:69) "God will judge between you on the Day of Resurrection in what
you dispute therein."

(22:70) Didyou not know that God knows what is in the heavens and the
earth? All is in a record. All that for God is easy.

(22:71) Andthey serve besides God what He did not send any authority
upon, and what they have no knowledge of. And the wicked will not have
any helper.

(22:72) Andif Our clear revelations are recited to them, you see
denial in the faces of those who have rejected. They are nearly close
to attacking those who are reciting to them Our revelations! Say:
"Shall I inform you of what is worse than this? The Fire, which God
has promised to those who have rejected. What a miserable destiny!"

(22:73) O people, an example is being put forth so listen to it: those
you call upon besides God will not create a fly even if they all
gathered to do so. And if the fly takes anything from them, they will
not be able to return anything from it. Weak is both the seeker and
the sought!

(22:74) They have truly underestimated the power of God; for God is
Powerful, Noble.

(22:75) Godchooses messengers from among the angels and from among the
people. God is Hearer, Seer.

(22:76) He knows their present and their future. And to God all
matters are returned.

(22:77) O you who believe, kneel and prostrate and serve your Lord and
do good that you may succeed.

(22:78) Andstrive in the cause of God its truly deserved striving. He
is the One who has chosen you, and He has made no hardship for you in
the system, the creed of your father Abraham; He is the One who named
you 'those who have submitted' from before and in this. So let the
messenger be witness over you and you be witness over the people. So
hold the contact prayer and contribute towards purification and hold
tight to God, He is your patron. What an excellent Patron, and what an
excellent Supporter.














