(23:1) The believers are indeed successful.

(23:2) Those who are humble when making their contact prayer.

(23:3) And they abstain from vain talk.

(23:4) And they are active towards purification.

(23:5) And they keep covered their private parts.

(23:6) Except around their mates, or those who are maintained by their
oaths, they are free from blame.

(23:7) But whoever seeks anything beyond this, then these are the
transgressors.

(23:8) And those who look after what they have been entrusted to and
to their pledges.

(23:9) And those who maintain their contact prayers.

(23:10) These are the inheritors.

(23:11) Theones who shall inherit the Paradise, in it they will abide.

(23:12) And We have created man from an extract from clay.

(23:13) Then We made him a seed in a safe lodging.

(23:14) Then We created the seed into an embryo, then We created the
embryo into a fetus, then We created the fetus into bone, then We
covered the bone with flesh, then We brought forth a new creation. So
glory be to God, the best of creators.

(23:15) Then after that, you will die.

(23:16) Then you will be resurrected on the Day of Resurrection.

(23:17) AndWe have created above you seven paths; and We were never,
with regards to the creation, unaware.

(23:18) AndWe sent down from the sky water in due measure, then We let
it reside in the land, and We are capable of taking it away.

(23:19) So We brought forth for you gardens of palm trees and grapes,
for which you will find many fruits and from it you will eat.

(23:20) Anda tree which emerges from the mount of Sinai, it grows oil
and is a relish for those who eat.

(23:21) Andin the livestock are lessons for you. We give you to drink
from what is in its bellies, and you have many other benefits from
them, and of them you eat.

(23:22) Andon them and on the ships you are carried.

(23:23) AndWe have sent Noah to his people, so he said: "O my people,
serve God, you have no other god besides Him. Will you not take heed?"

(23:24) Butthe leaders who rejected from among his people said: "What
is this but a human being like you? He wants to make himself better
than you! And if it was indeed the will of God, He would have sent
down angels. We did not hear such a thing among our fathers of old."

(23:25) "Heis no more than a man who has madness in him. So keep watch
on him for a while."

(23:26) He said: "My Lord, grant me victory for what they denied me."

(23:27) So We inspired him: "Construct the ship under Our eyes and Our
inspiration. Then, when Our command comes and the chamber erupts, then
you shall take in it a pair from each kind, and your family; except
for those of them upon whom the word has come. And do not address Me
regarding those who have done wrong, for they will be drowned."

(23:28) So when you and those who are with you have embarked on the
ship, then say: "All praise is due to God who has saved us from the
wicked people."

(23:29) Andsay: "My Lord, cause me to embark upon a blessed place, for
You are the best for those who embark."

(23:30) In this are signs, and We will always test.

(23:31) Then We raised after them a different generation.

(23:32) So We sent a messenger to them from among them: "Serve God,
you have no other god besides Him. Will you not take heed?"

(23:33) Andthe leaders from among his people who rejected and denied
the meeting of the Hereafter; and We indulged them in this worldly
life; said: "What is this but a human being like you? He eats from
what you eat and he drinks from what you drink."

(23:34) "And if you obey a human being like you, then you will indeed
be losers."

(23:35) "Does he promise you that if you die and become dust and bones
that you will be brought out?"

(23:36) "Far fetched is what you are being promised."

(23:37) "There is nothing but our worldly life, we die and we live,
and we will not be resurrected."

(23:38) "Heis but a man who has invented a lie against God, and we
will not believe in him."

(23:39) He said: "My Lord, grant me victory for what they denied me."

(23:40) He said: "In a little while they will be in regret."

(23:41) So the scream took them with justice, and We made them as dead
plants. So away with the wicked people.

(23:42) Then We raised after them different generations.

(23:43) No nation can hasten its appointed time, nor can it delay.

(23:44) Then We sent Our messengers in succession. Every time there
came to a nation their messenger, they denied him. So We made them
follow one another, and We let them become narrations. So away with a
people who do not believe!

(23:45) Then We sent Moses and his brother Aaron with Our signs and a
clear authority.

(23:46) To Pharaoh and his commanders. But they became arrogant, for
they were a high and mighty people.

(23:47) So they said: "Shall we believe to two human beings like us,
while their people are servants to us?"

(23:48) So they denied them, and they became of those who were
destroyed.

(23:49) AndWe have given Moses the Book, so that they may be guided.

(23:50) AndWe made the son of Mary and his mother a sign, and We gave
them refuge on high ground, a place for resting and with a flowing
stream.

(23:51) "O messengers, eat from what is good, and do good work. I am
aware of what you do."

(23:52) "And this is your nation, one nation, and I am your Lord so be
aware."

(23:53) Butthe affair was disputed between them into segments. Every
group happy with what it had.

(23:54) So leave them in their error until a time.

(23:55) Do they not think why We are extending them with wealth and
sons?

(23:56) We are quick to give them the good things. But they do not
perceive.

(23:57) As for those who are, from the concern of their Lord, worried.

(23:58) Andthey believe in the revelations of their Lord.

(23:59) Andthey do not set up anything with their Lord.

(23:60) Andthey give of what they were given, and their hearts are
full of reverence that they will return to their Lord.

(23:61) These are the ones who race in doing good, and they are the
first to it.

(23:62) AndWe do not burden a soul except with what it can bear. And
We have a record that speaks with the truth, they will not be wronged.

(23:63) No,their hearts are unaware of this! And they have deeds
besides this which they are doing.

(23:64) Until We take their carefree people with the retribution, then
they will shout for help.

(23:65) Do not shout for help today, for you will not be helped
against Us.

(23:66) My revelations were recited to you, but you used to turn back
on your heels.

(23:67) Youwere too proud from it, talking evil about it; and you
defiantly disregarded it.

(23:68) Didthey not ponder the words, or has there come to them that
which had not come to their fathers of old?

(23:69) Or did they not know their messenger? For they are in denial
of him.

(23:70) Or do they say that there is a madness in him? No, he has come
to them with the truth, but most of them are hateful of the truth.

(23:71) Andif the truth were to follow their desires, then the heavens
and the earth and all who are in them would have been corrupted. No,
We have come to them with their reminder, but from their reminder they
are turning away.

(23:72) Or do you ask them for a wage? The wage of your Lord is best,
and He is the best of providers.

(23:73) Andyou are inviting them to a straight path.

(23:74) Andthose who do not believe in the Hereafter, they are
deviating away from the path.

(23:75) Andif We were to have mercy on them and remove what distress
was upon them, they would still return to persist in their
transgression, wandering blindly.

(23:76) Andwhen We seized them with the punishment, they did not
humble themselves to their Lord nor did they invoke Him.

(23:77) Until We open for them a door of immense retribution, then
they become in sorrow and despair.

(23:78) AndHe is the One who established for you the hearing, and the
sight, and the hearts. Little do you give thanks.

(23:79) AndHe is the One who multiplied you on the earth, and to Him
you will be returned.

(23:80) AndHe is the One who gives life and brings death, and to Him
is the alteration of the night and the day. Do you not comprehend?

(23:81) No,they have said the same as what the people of old had said.

(23:82) They said: "If we are dead and become dust and bones, will we
then be resurrected?"

(23:83) "We, as well as our fathers, have been promised this from
before. This is nothing except fictional tales of old!"

(23:84) Say: "To whom is the earth and whoever is in it if you know?"

(23:85) They will say: "To God." Say: "Will you then not remember!"

(23:86) Say: "Who is the Lord of the seven heavens and the Lord of the
great Throne?"

(23:87) They will say: "To God." Say: "Will you then not take heed?"

(23:88) Say: "In whose hand is the sovereignty of all things, and He
protects while there is no protector against Him, if you know?"

(23:89) They will say: "To God." Say: "Then why are you deceived?"

(23:90) No,We have come to them with the truth, and they are truly
liars.

(23:91) God has not taken a son, nor is there with Him any god. If it
were so, then every god would have taken what he created and they
would have tried to overtake each other. God be glorified against what
they describe!

(23:92) Theknower of the unseen and the seen. Be He exalted above what
they set up.

(23:93) Say: "My Lord, if You show me what they are promised."

(23:94) "My Lord, then do not leave me among the wicked people."

(23:95) AndWe are able to show you what We promise them.

(23:96) Push away evil with that which is better. We are better aware
of what they describe.

(23:97) Andsay: "My Lord, I seek refuge with You from the whispers of
the devils."

(23:98) "And I seek refuge with you O Lord that they should come
near."

(23:99) Until death comes to one of them, he says: "My Lord, send me
back."

(23:100) "So that I may do good in that which I have left behind." No,
it is but a word he is speaking. And there is a barrier to prevent
them from going back until the Day they are all resurrected.

(23:101) So when the horn is blown, then there will be no kinship
between them on that Day, nor will they ask for one another.

(23:102) So, those whose weights are heavy on the balance, those are
the successful ones.

(23:103) And those whose weights are light on the balance, those are
the ones who lost their souls, in Hell they will abide.

(23:104) The Fire will scorch their faces, and in it their grin will
be with displaced lips.

(23:105) "Were My revelations not recited to you, then you denied
them?"

(23:106) Theysaid: "Our Lord, our wickedness overcame us, and we were
a misguided people."

(23:107) "OurLord, bring us out of it, and if we return to such, then
we are indeed wicked."

(23:108) He said: "Be humiliated therein and do not speak to Me."

(23:109) There was a group from among My servants who used to say:
"Our Lord, we have believed, so forgive us, and have mercy upon us,
for You are the best of those who show mercy."

(23:110) But you mocked them, so much so that they made you forget My
remembrance, and you used to laugh at them.

(23:111) I have rewarded them today for their patience, they are
indeed the winners.

(23:112) He said:"How long have you stayed in the earth in terms of
years?"

(23:113) Theysaid: "We remained for a day, or for part of a day. So
ask those who kept count."

(23:114) He said: "You have remained for very little, if only you
knew."

(23:115) "Didyou think that We have created you without purpose, and
that you would not return to Us?"

(23:116) So, Exalted is God, the true King, there is no god except He,
the Lord of the noble Throne.

(23:117) And whoever calls on another god with God when he has no
proof for such, then his judgment is with his Lord. The rejecters will
never succeed.

(23:118) And say: "My Lord, forgive and have mercy, and you are the
best of those who are merciful."














