(26:1) T'SM.

(26:2) These are the signs of the Book of clarity.

(26:3) Perhaps you grieve yourself that they do not become believers.

(26:4) IfWe wish, We could send down for them from the heavens a sign,
to which they would bend their necks in humility.

(26:5) And not a reminder comes to them from the Almighty, except that
they turn away from it.

(26:6) They have denied, thus the news will come to them of what they
used to mock.

(26:7) Did they not look to the earth, how many plants have We raised
in it, from each a good pair.

(26:8) Inthat is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:9) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:10) Andwhen your Lord called to Moses: "Go to the people who are
wicked."

(26:11) "The people of Pharaoh. Will they not be righteous?"

(26:12) He said: "My Lord, I fear that they would deny me."

(26:13) "And my chest would become tight, and my tongue would not be
able to express; so send for Aaron."

(26:14) "And they have charges of a crime against me, so I fear they
will kill me."

(26:15) He said: "Indeed not! Go both of you with Our signs. I am with
you listening."

(26:16) "So both of you go to Pharaoh and say: 'We are messengers of
the Lord of the worlds'

(26:17) 'Sosend with us the Children of Israel'"

(26:18) He said: "Did we not raise you among us as a new born, and you
stayed with us for many of your years?"

(26:19) "And you did that deed you did, and you are of the rejecters."

(26:20) He said: "I did it, and I was of those misguided."

(26:21) "SoI ran away from you all, for I feared you. So my Lord
granted me judgment, and made me of the messengers."

(26:22) "And is it a favor that you taunt me with, so you could
continue to enslave the Children of Israel?"

(26:23) Pharaoh said: "And what is the Lord of the worlds?"

(26:24) He said: "The Lord of the heavens and the earth and what is
between them, if you are aware."

(26:25) He said to those around him: "Do you hear that?"

(26:26) He said: "Your Lord and the Lord of your fathers of old!"

(26:27) He said: "This messenger of yours who has been sent to you is
crazy!"

(26:28) He said: "The Lord of the east and the west, and what is
between them, if you comprehend."

(26:29) He said: "If you take a god other than me, then I will put you
among the prisoners."

(26:30) He said: "What if I brought you proof?"

(26:31) He said: "Then bring it forth if you are of the truthful
ones."

(26:32) So he cast his staff, then it manifested into a serpent.

(26:33) Andhe drew out his hand, then it became white to the
onlookers.

(26:34) He said to the commanders around him: "This is a knowledgeable
magician!"

(26:35) "Hewants to bring you out of your land with his magic. So what
will you decide?"

(26:36) They said: "Delay him and his brother, and send gatherers to
the cities."

(26:37) "They will come to you with every knowledgeable magician."

(26:38) So the magicians were gathered to an appointed day.

(26:39) Andit was said to the people: "Will you also gather?"

(26:40) "Perhaps we can follow the magicians if they are the winners."

(26:41) So when the magicians came, they said to Pharaoh: "We should
be rewarded if we are the winners."

(26:42) He said: "Yes, and you shall also be near to me."

(26:43) Moses said to them: "Cast down what it is you will cast."

(26:44) So they cast down their ropes and staffs and they said: "By
the might of Pharaoh, we will be the winners."

(26:45) So Moses cast down his staff, then it was eating-up all that
they showed!

(26:46) So the magicians went down prostrating.

(26:47) They said: "We believe in the Lord of the worlds!"

(26:48) "The Lord of Moses and Aaron."

(26:49) He said: "Have you believed unto him before I permitted you?
He is surely your great one who has taught you magic. So you shall
come to know, I will cut off your hands and feet from alternate sides,
and I will crucify you all."

(26:50) They said: "There is no worry, for we are all returning to our
Lord."

(26:51) "Wehope that our Lord will forgive us our wrongdoings, as we
are the first to believe."

(26:52) AndWe inspired Moses: "Take away My servants, for you will be
followed."

(26:53) So Pharaoh sent gatherers to the cities.

(26:54) "These are but a small band."

(26:55) "And they have done what has enraged us."

(26:56) "And we are all gathered and forewarned."

(26:57) So,We evicted them out of gardens and springs.

(26:58) Andtreasures and an honorable station.

(26:59) As such, We gave it to the Children of Israel.

(26:60) So they were pursued at sunrise.

(26:61) Butwhen the two groups saw each other, the companions of Moses
said: "We are caught!"

(26:62) He said: "No, my Lord is with me and He will guide me."

(26:63) So We inspired to Moses: "Strike the sea with your staff." So
it split into two, each side like a great mountain.

(26:64) AndWe then brought them to the other side.

(26:65) AndWe saved Moses and all those with him.

(26:66) Then We drowned the others.

(26:67) In that is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:68) Andyour Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:69) Andrecite to them the news of Abraham.

(26:70) When he said to his father and his people: "What do you
worship?"

(26:71) They said: "We worship statues; thus we stay devoted to them."

(26:72) He said: "Do they hear you when you call to them?"

(26:73) "Ordo they benefit you or harm you?"

(26:74) They said: "No, but we found our fathers doing the same."

(26:75) He said: "Do you see that which you have been worshipping."

(26:76) "You and your fathers of old."

(26:77) "They are enemies to me, except for the Lord of the worlds."

(26:78) "The One who has created me, He will guide me."

(26:79) "And He is the One who feeds me and gives me to drink."

(26:80) "And if I am sick, He is the One who cures me."

(26:81) "And the One who will make me die and then bring me to life."

(26:82) "And the One whom I hope will forgive my mistakes on the Day
of Recompense."

(26:83) "MyLord, grant me authority and join me with the good doers."

(26:84) "And give me a tongue that is true for those who will follow."

(26:85) "And make me of the inheritors of gardens of bliss."

(26:86) "And forgive my father, for he was of those misguided."

(26:87) "And do not disgrace me on the Day when they are resurrected."

(26:88) "The Day when no money or sons can help."

(26:89) "Except for he who comes to God with a pure heart."

(26:90) Andthe Paradise was made near for the righteous.

(26:91) AndHell was displayed for the wrongdoers.

(26:92) Andit was said to them: "Where is what you used to worship?"

(26:93) "Without God; can they help you or help themselves?"

(26:94) So they were thrown in it on their faces, them and the
wrongdoers.

(26:95) And all the soldiers of Satan.

(26:96) They said, while they were disputing therein:

(26:97) "ByGod, we were clearly misguided."

(26:98) "For we equated you with the Lord of the worlds!"

(26:99) "And none misled us except the criminals."

(26:100) "So we have none to intercede for us."

(26:101) "Nora close friend."

(26:102) "If only we could have another chance, we would be among the
believers."

(26:103) In that is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:104) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:105) The people of Noah disbelieved the messengers.

(26:106) Whentheir brother Noah said to them: "Will you not be
righteous?"

(26:107) "I am to you a trustworthy messenger."

(26:108) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:109) "AndI do not ask you for any wage, for my reward is upon the
Lord of the worlds."

(26:110) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:111) Theysaid: "Shall we believe to you when the lowest type of
people have followed you?"

(26:112) He said: "And what knowledge do I have of what they used to
do?"

(26:113) "Their judgment is on my Lord, if you could know."

(26:114) "AndI will not drive away the believers."

(26:115) "I am but a clear warner."

(26:116) They said: "If you do not cease, O Noah, you will be of those
who are stoned."

(26:117) He said: "My Lord, my people have denied me!"

(26:118) "So open between me and them a rift, and save me and those
who are with me of the believers."

(26:119) So We saved him and those who were with him in the charged
ship.

(26:120) Thenafter that We drowned the rest.

(26:121) In that is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:122) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:123) 'Aad denied the messengers.

(26:124) For their brother Hud said to them: "Will you not be
righteous?"

(26:125) "I am to you a clear messenger."

(26:126) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:127) "AndI do not ask you for any wage, for my reward is upon the
Lord of the worlds."

(26:128) "Do you build on every high place a symbol, for the sake of
vanity!"

(26:129) "Andyou take for yourselves strongholds, perhaps you will
live forever?"

(26:130) "Andif you attack, you strike ruthlessly?"

(26:131) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:132) "Andbe aware of the One who provided you with what you know."

(26:133) "He provided you with livestock and sons."

(26:134) "Andgardens and springs."

(26:135) "I fear for you the retribution of a great day"

(26:136) Theysaid: "It is the same whether you preach or do not
preach."

(26:137) "This is nothing except an invention by the people of old."

(26:138) "Andwe are not going to be punished."

(26:139) So they denied him, and We destroyed them. In that is a sign,
but most are not believers.

(26:140) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:141) Thamud denied the messengers.

(26:142) For their brother Saleh said to them: "Will you not be
righteous?"

(26:143) "I am to you a clear messenger."

(26:144) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:145) "AndI do not ask you for any wage, for my reward is upon the
Lord of the worlds."

(26:146) "Will you be left secure in that which you have here?"

(26:147) "In gardens and springs."

(26:148) "Andgreen crops and palm trees laden with fruit."

(26:149) "Andyou carve homes out of the mountains with great skill?"

(26:150) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:151) "Anddo not obey the command of the carefree."

(26:152) "Theones who corrupt in the land and are not reformers."

(26:153) They said: "You are but one of those bewitched!"

(26:154) "Youare but a human being like us. So bring a sign if you are
of the truthful ones."

(26:155) He said: "This is a female camel, for her is a share of
water, and for you is a share of water, each on an appointed day."

(26:156) "Anddo not afflict her with harm, else the retribution of a
great day will seize you."

(26:157) But they slaughtered her, and they became regretful.

(26:158) So the retribution took them. In that is a sign, but most of
them are not believers.

(26:159) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:160) The people of Lot denied the messengers.

(26:161) For their brother Lot said to them: "Will you not be
righteous?"

(26:162) "I am to you a trustworthy messenger."

(26:163) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:164) "AndI do not ask you for any wage, for my reward is upon the
Lord of the worlds."

(26:165) "Do you approach the males of the worlds?"

(26:166) "And you leave what your Lord has created for you of mates?
You are an intrusive people!"

(26:167) Theysaid: "If you do not cease O Lot, you will be among those
driven out."

(26:168) He said: "I am in severe opposition to your acts!"

(26:169) "My Lord, save me and my family from what they do."

(26:170) So We saved him and his entire family.

(26:171) Except for an old woman who remained.

(26:172) ThenWe destroyed the others.

(26:173) And We rained upon them a rain. Miserable was the rain to
those who had been warned.

(26:174) In that is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:175) And that your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:176) The people of the Sycamore disbelieved the messengers.

(26:177) For Shu'ayb said to them: "Will you not be righteous?"

(26:178) "I am to you a trustworthy messenger."

(26:179) "So be aware of God and obey me."

(26:180) "AndI do not ask you for any wage, for my reward is upon the
Lord of the worlds."

(26:181) "Give full measure and do not be of those who cause losses."

(26:182) "Andweigh with the balance that is straight."

(26:183) "Anddo not defraud the people of their belongings, and do not
venture into the land corrupting."

(26:184) "Andbe aware of the One who has created you and the
generations of old."

(26:185) Theysaid: "You are but one of those bewitched."

(26:186) "Andyou are nothing but a human being like us, and we think
you are one of those who lie."

(26:187) "So let pieces from the heaven fall upon us if you are of
those who are truthful!"

(26:188) He said: "My Lord is most aware of what you do."

(26:189) But they denied him, so the retribution of the day of shadow
took them. It was the retribution of a terrible day.

(26:190) In that is a sign, but most of them are not believers.

(26:191) And your Lord is the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:192) And this is a revelation from the Lord of the worlds.

(26:193) It was sent down with the trusted Spirit.

(26:194) Uponyour heart, so that you would be of the warners.

(26:195) In a clear Arabic tongue.

(26:196) And it is in the scriptures of old.

(26:197) Was it not a sign for them that the scholars of the Children
of Israel knew it?

(26:198) And had We sent it down upon some of the foreigners,

(26:199) And he read it to them, they would not have believed in it.

(26:200) As such, We diverted it from the hearts of the criminals.

(26:201) Theydo not believe in it until they see the painful
retribution.

(26:202) So it will come to them suddenly, while they do not perceive
it.

(26:203) Thenthey would say: "Can we be given more time?"

(26:204) Was it not their wish that Our punishment be hastened?

(26:205) Do you see that if We gave them luxury for years.

(26:206) Thenwhat they were promised came to them.

(26:207) All the luxury they were given will not avail them.

(26:208) And We have not destroyed any town except after having
warners.

(26:209) By way of a reminder, and We were never unjust.

(26:210) And it is not the devils who have brought this down.

(26:211) Nor would they, nor could they.

(26:212) Theyare blocked from overhearing.

(26:213) So do not call upon any other god with God, else you will be
with those punished.

(26:214) And warn your closest kin.

(26:215) And lower your wing for any who follow you of the believers.

(26:216) But,if they disobey you, say: "I am innocent from what you
do."

(26:217) And put your trust in the Noble, the Merciful.

(26:218) The One who sees you when you stand.

(26:219) And your movements among those who prostrate.

(26:220) He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(26:221) Shall I inform you on whom the devils come down?

(26:222) Theycome down on every sinful liar.

(26:223) Theyclaim to listen, but most of them are liars.

(26:224) And the poets, are followed by the strayers.

(26:225) Do you not see that they traverse in every valley.

(26:226) And that what they say, is not what they do!

(26:227) Except for those who believe, and do good works, and remember
God greatly, and were victorious after they were wronged. As for those
who did wrong, they will know which fate they will meet.














