(29:1) ALM.

(29:2) Did the people think that they will be left to say: "We
believe" without being put to the test?

(29:3) We had tested those before them, so that God would distinguish
those who are truthful and so that He would know the liars.

(29:4) Or did those who sinned think that they would be ahead of Us?
Miserable indeed is their judgment!

(29:5) Whoever looks forward to meeting God, then the meeting of God
will come. And He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(29:6) And whoever strives is only striving for himself; for God is in
no need of the worlds.

(29:7) And those who believed and did good works, We will cancel their
sins and We will reward them in the best for what they did.

(29:8) And We instructed man to be good to his parents. But if they
strive to make you set up partners with Me, then do not obey them. To
Me are all your destinies, and I will inform you of what you used to
do.

(29:9) And those who believed and did good works, We will admit them
with the righteous.

(29:10) And from among the people are those who say: "We believe in
God," but if he is harmed in the sake of God, he equates the
persecution inflicted by the people with the punishment of God! And if
a victory comes from your Lord, he says: "We were with you!" Is God
not fully aware of what is in the chests of the worlds?

(29:11) God is fully aware of those who believed, and He is fully
aware of the hypocrites.

(29:12) And those who rejected said to those who believed: "Follow our
path and we will carry your mistakes." But they cannot carry anything
from their mistakes, they are liars!

(29:13) And they will carry their own burdens, and burdens with their
burdens, and they will be asked on the Day of Resurrection regarding
what they fabricated.

(29:14) And We had sent Noah to his people, so he stayed with them one
thousand years less fifty. Then the flood took them while they were
wicked.

(29:15) So We saved him and the people on the ship, and We made it a
sign for the worlds.

(29:16) And Abraham when he said to his people: "Serve God and be
aware of Him, that is better for you if only you knew."

(29:17) "You are worshipping nothing except idols besides Him, and you
are creating fabrications. Those that you worship besides God do not
possess for you any provision, so seek with God the provision and
serve Him and be thankful to Him; to Him you will return."

(29:18) "And if you disbelieve, then nations before you have also
disbelieved." The messenger is only required to deliver clearly.

(29:19) Did they not observe how God initiates the creation then He
returns it? All that for God is easy to do.

(29:20) Say: "Roam the earth and observe how the creation was
initiated. Thus God will establish the final creation. God is capable
of all things."

(29:21) "God will punish whom He wills and He will have mercy on whom
He wills, and to Him you will return."

(29:22) "And you will not be able to escape this fact, on the earth or
in the heavens, nor do you have besides God any ally or victor."

(29:23) And those who rejected the revelations of God and in meeting
Him; those have forsaken My mercy; and they will have a painful
retribution.

(29:24) But the only response from his people was their saying: "Kill
him, or burn him." But God saved him from the fire. In this are signs
for a people who believe.

(29:25) And he said: "You have taken idols besides God in order to
preserve some friendship among you in this worldly life. But then, on
the Day of Resurrection, you will reject one another, and curse one
another. Your destiny is Hell, and you will have no victors."

(29:26) Lot believed with him and said: "I am emigrating to my
Lord. He is the Noble, the Wise."

(29:27) And We granted him Isaac and Jacob, and We made within his
progeny the prophethood and the Book. And We gave him his reward in
this world, and in the Hereafter he is among the righteous.

(29:28) And Lot, when he said to his people: "You commit an immorality
that no others in the world have done before!"

(29:29) "You sexually approach men, and you commit highway robbery,
and you bring all vice to your society." But the only response from
his people was to say: "Bring us the retribution of God, if you are
being truthful!"

(29:30) He said: "My Lord, grant me victory over the wicked people."

(29:31) And when Our messengers came to Abraham with good news, they
said: "We are to destroy the people of such a town, for its people
have been wicked."

(29:32) He said: "But Lot is in it!" They said: "We are fully aware of
who is in it. We will save him and his family, except his wife; she is
of those doomed."

(29:33) And when Our messengers came to Lot, they were mistreated, and
he was embarrassed towards them. And they said: "Do not fear, and do
not be saddened. We will save you and your family, except for your
wife; she is of those doomed."

(29:34) "We will send down upon the people of this town an affliction
from the heaven for what wickedness they were in."

(29:35) And We left remains of it as a clear sign for a people who
comprehend.

(29:36) And to Midyan was their brother Shu'ayb. He said: "O my
people, serve God and seek the Last Day, and do not roam the earth
corrupting."

(29:37) But they denied him, so the earthquake took them; thus they
became lifeless in their dwelling.

(29:38) And 'Aad and Thamud. Much was made apparent to you from their
dwellings. The devil had adorned their works in their eyes, thus he
diverted them from the path, even though they could see.

(29:39) And Qaroon, and Pharaoh, and Haamaan;Moses went to them with
clear proofs. But they became arrogant in the land, and they were not
the first.

(29:40) We took each by his sins. Some of them We sent upon him
violent winds, some of them were taken by the scream, some of them We
caused the earth to swallow, and some of them We drowned. God is not
the One who wronged them; it is they who wronged themselves.

(29:41) The example of those who take allies besides God is like the
spider how it makes a home; and the weakest home is the home of the
spider, if only they knew.

(29:42) God knows that what they are calling on besides Him is
nothing. He is the Noble, the Wise.

(29:43) Such are the examples We put forth for the people, but none
comprehend except the knowledgeable.

(29:44) God created the heavens and the earth with truth. In that is a
sign for the faithful.

(29:45) Recite what is inspired to you of the Bookand hold the contact
prayer, for the contact prayer prohibits immorality and vice; but
certainly the remembrance of God is the greatest. God knows everything
you do.

(29:46) And do not argue with the people of the Book except in that
which is better; except for those who are wicked among them; and say:
"We believe in what was revealed to us and in what was revealed to
you, and our god and your god is the same; to Him we submit."

(29:47) And similarly, We have sent down to you the Book. Thus, those
whom We have given the Book will believe in it. Also, some of your
people will believe in it. The only ones who mock Our revelations are
the rejecters.

(29:48) You were not reciting any Book before this, nor were you
writing one down by your hand. In that case, the doubters would have
had reason.

(29:49) In fact, it is a clear revelation in the chests of those who
have been given knowledge. And it is only the wicked who doubt Our
revelations.

(29:50) And they said: "If only signs would come down to him from his
Lord!" Say: "All signs are with God, and I am but a clear warner."

(29:51) Is it not enough for them that We have sent down to you the
Book that is being recited to them? In that is a mercy and a reminder
for people who believe.

(29:52) Say: "God is enough as a witness between me and you. He knows
what is in the heavens and the earth. As for those who believe in
falsehood and reject God, they are the losers."

(29:53) And they hasten you for the retribution! If it were not for an
appointed term, the retribution would have come to them. Itwill come
to them suddenly, when they do not expect.

(29:54) They hasten you for the retribution; while Hell surrounds the
rejecters.

(29:55) The Day will come when the retribution overwhelms them, from
above them and from beneath their feet; and We will say: "Taste the
results of what you used to do!"

(29:56) O My servants who believed, My earth is spacious, so serve
only Me.

(29:57) Every soul will taste death, then to Us you will be returned.

(29:58) And those who believe and do good works, We will settle them
in mansions in the Paradise, with rivers flowing beneath them, abiding
therein. Excellent is the reward for the workers.

(29:59) They are the ones who were patient, and put their trust in
their Lord.

(29:60) And many a creature does not carry its provision; God provides
for it, and for you. He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(29:61) And if you ask them: "Who has created the heavens and the
earth, and put the sun and the moon in motion?" They will say: "God."
Why then did they deviate?

(29:62) God expands the provision for whoever He chooses from among
His servants, and withholds it. God is fully aware of all things.

(29:63) And if you ask them: "Who sends down water from the sky, thus
reviving the land after its death?" They will say: "God." Say: "Praise
be to God." But most of them do not comprehend.

(29:64) And this worldly life is no more than distraction and play,
while the abode of the Hereafter is the reality, if only they knew.

(29:65) When they ride on a ship, they call on God,devoting the system
to Him. But as soon as He saves them to the shore, they set up
partners.

(29:66) Let them reject what We have given them, and let them enjoy;
for they will come to know.

(29:67) Have they not seen that We have established a safe territory,
while all around them the people are in constant danger? Would they
still believe in falsehood, and reject the blessings of God?

(29:68) Who is more evil than he who fabricates lies and attributes
them to God, or denies the truth when it comes to him? Is there not a
place in Hell for the rejecters?

(29:69) As for those who strive in Our cause, We will guide them to
Our paths. For God is with the pious.














