(3:1) ALM.

(3:2) God, there is no god except He, the Living, the Sustainer.

(3:3) He sent down to you the Book with the truth, authenticating what
is between his hands; and He sent down the Torah and the Gospel.

(3:4) From before as a guidance for the people, and He sent down the
Criterion. Those who rejected the revelations of God, they will have a
severe retribution, and God is Noble, exacting in Revenge.

(3:5) For God nothing is hidden on the earth or in the heavens.

(3:6) He is the One who pictures you in the wombs as He pleases. There
is no god except He, the Noble, the Wise.

(3:7) He is the One who sent down to you the Book, from which there
are lawgiving revelations; they are the essence of the Book; and
others which are of a similatude. As for those who have a disease in
their hearts, they will follow that which is of a similatude, seeking
to confuse, and seeking to derive an interpretation. But none know its
interpretation except God, and those who are well founded in
knowledge; they say: "We believe in it, all is from our Lord." And
none will remember except those who possess intelligence.

(3:8) "Our Lord, do not make our hearts deviate after You have guided
us, and grant us from You a mercy. Indeed, You are the Grantor."

(3:9) "Our Lord, You will gather the people for a Day in which there
is no doubt; God does not break His appointment."

(3:10) As for those who rejected, neither their money nor their
children will avail them anything from God. They are the fuel of the
Fire.

(3:11) Like the behavior of the people of Pharaoh and those before
them. They rejected Our signs so God took them for their sins. God is
awesome in retribution.

(3:12) Say to those who have rejected: "You will be defeated and
gathered towards Hell, what a miserable abode!"

(3:13) There was a sign for you in the two groups that met. One was
fighting in the cause of God, and the other was rejecting. They thus
saw them as twice their number with their eyes. And God supports with
His victory whom He wills. In this is a lesson for those with vision.

(3:14) It has been adorned for people to love the desire of women, and
sons, and ornaments made from gold and silver, and trained horses, and
livestock, and fields. These are the enjoyment of the world, and with
God is the best abode.

(3:15) Say: "Shall I inform you of what is greater than all this? For
those who believe in their Lord will be estates with rivers flowing
beneath them; abiding therein, and with pure mates, and an acceptance
from God. And God is Seer over the servants."

(3:16) The ones who say: "Our Lord, we believe, so forgive us our
sins, and spare us the retribution of the Fire."

(3:17) The patient, and the truthful, and the dutiful, and the givers,
and the seekers of forgiveness in the late hours of the night.

(3:18) God bears witness that there is no god except He, as do the
angels, and those with knowledge, He is standing with justice. There
is no god except He, the Noble, the Wise.

(3:19) The system with God is submission, and those who received the
Book did not dispute except after the knowledge came to them out of
jealousy between them. And whoever rejects the revelations of God,
then God is swift in judgment.

(3:20) If they debate with you, then say: "I have submitted myself to
God, as well as those who follow me." And say to those who have
received the Book and the Gentiles: "Have you submitted?" If they have
submitted then they are guided, and if they turn away, then you are
only to deliver, and God is Seer over the servants.

(3:21) Those who reject the revelations of God and kill the prophets
without right, and kill those who order justice from among the people;
inform them of a painful retribution.

(3:22) These are the ones whose works will be lost in this world, and
in the Hereafter they will have no supporters.

(3:23) Did you not see those who were given a portion of the Book
being invited to the Book of God to judge between them, then a group
of them turns away while they are adverse?

(3:24) That is because they said: "The Fire will not touch us except
for a few number of days," and they were arrogant by what they
invented in their system.

(3:25) How shall it be when We gather them on the Day in which there
is no doubt; and every soul shall receive what it has earned, and they
will not be wronged.

(3:26) Say: "Our god, Possessor of kingship; you grant kingship to
whom You please, and revoke kingship from whom You please, and honor
whom You please, and humiliate whom You please; in Your hand is
goodness. You are capable of all things."

(3:27) "You blend the night into the day, and blend the day into the
night; and you bring the living out of the dead, and bring the dead
out of the living; and You provide for whom You wish without
reckoning."

(3:28) Let not the believers take the rejecters as allies instead of
the believers. And whoever does so will have nothing with God; for you
are to be cautious of them as they deserve. And God warns you of
Himself, and to God is the destiny.

(3:29) Say: "Whether you hide what is in your chests or you reveal it,
God will know." And He knows what is in the heavens and the earth; and
God is capable of all things.

(3:30) The Day every soul will find what good it had done present; and
what bad it had done, it will wish that between them was a great
distance. And God warns you of Himself, and God is Compassionate
towards the servants.

(3:31) Say: "If you love God then follow me so God will love you and
forgive your sins." God is Forgiver, Merciful.

(3:32) Say: "Obey God and the messenger." But if they turn away, then
God does not love the rejecters.

(3:33) God has selected Adam, and Noah, and the family of Abraham, and
the family of Imran over the worlds.

(3:34) A progeny each from the other, and God is Hearer, Knower.

(3:35) When the wife of Imran said: "My Lord, I have vowed to You what
is in my womb, devoted, so accept from me, You are the Hearer, the
Knower."

(3:36) So when she had delivered she said: "My Lord, I have delivered
a female," and God is fully aware of what she delivered, "And the male
is not like the female, and I have named her Mary, and I seek refuge
for her and her progeny with You from the outcast devil."

(3:37) So her Lord accepted her a good acceptance, and made her grow
into a good growth, and charged Zachariah with her. Every time
Zachariah entered upon her in the temple enclosure, he found
provisions with her. He said: "O Mary, from where did you get this?"
She said: "It is from God, for God provides for whom He wishes without
reckoning."

(3:38) It was then that Zachariah implored his Lord; he said: "My
Lord, grant me from You a good progeny. You are the hearer of prayer."

(3:39) So the angels called to him while he was standing, making
contact, in the temple enclosure: "God gives you glad tidings of John,
authenticating the word from God, and a master, and steadfast, and a
prophet from the upright."

(3:40) He said: "My Lord, how can I have a son when old age has
reached me and my wife is infertile?" He said: "It is as such that God
does what He pleases."

(3:41) He said: "My Lord, make for me a sign." He said: "Your sign is
not to speak to the people for three days except by symbol, and
remember your Lord greatly, and glorify at dusk and dawn."

(3:42) And the angels said: "O Mary, God has selected you and cleansed
you, and He has selected you over all the women of the worlds."

(3:43) "O Mary, be dutiful to your Lord and prostrate and kneel with
those who kneel."

(3:44) This is from the news of the unseen that We inspire to you. You
were not with them when they drew straws as to which one of them will
be charged with Mary; you were not with them when they disputed.

(3:45) And the angels said: "O Mary, God gives you glad tidings of a
word from Him. His name is the Messiah, Jesus, son of Mary. Honorable
in this world and in the Hereafter, and from among those who are made
close."

(3:46) "And he will speak to the people from the cradle and to
middle-age, and is from among the upright."

(3:47) She said: "My Lord, how can I have a son when no human being
has been with me?" He said: "It is thus that God creates what He
wills, when He decrees a command, He merely says to it 'Be,' and it
is."

(3:48) And He teaches him the Book and the Wisdom and the Torah and
the Gospel.

(3:49) And as a messenger to the Children of Israel: "I have come to
you with a sign from your Lord; that I create for you from clay the
form of a bird, then I blow into it and it becomes a bird with the
permission of God, and I heal the blind and the lepers, and give life
to the dead with the permission of God, and I prophesize for you what
you shall eat and what to store in your homes. In that is a sign for
you if you are believers."

(3:50) "And authenticating what is between my hands of the Torah, and
to make lawful some of that which was made unlawful to you; and I have
come to you with a sign from your Lord, so be aware of God and obey
me."

(3:51) "God is my Lord and your Lord, so serve Him, this is a straight
path."

(3:52) So when Jesus felt their rejection, he said: "Who are my
supporters to God?" The disciples said: "We are the supporters of God,
we believe in God and we bear witness that we have submitted."

(3:53) "Our Lord, we believe in what You have sent down, and followed
the messenger, so record us with those who bear witness."

(3:54) And they schemed and God schemed, but God is the best schemer.

(3:55) For God said: "O Jesus, I will terminate your life, and raise
you to Me, and cleanse you of those who have rejected, and make those
who have followed you above those who have rejected until the Day of
Resurrection. Then to Me is your return, all of you,so I will judge
between you in what it was that you disputed."

(3:56) "As for those who have rejected, I will punish them severely in
this world and in the Hereafter, they will have no supporters."

(3:57) "And as for those who have believed and have done good works,
We will pay them their recompense; God does not love the wicked."

(3:58) This We recite to you from the revelations and the wise
reminder.

(3:59) The example of Jesus with God is similar to that of Adam; He
created him from dust, then He said to him "Be" and he was.

(3:60) The truth is from your Lord, so do not be of those who doubt.

(3:61) Whoever debates with you in this after the knowledge has come
to you, then say: "Let us call our children and your children, our
women and your women, ourselves and yourselves, then, let us invoke
and make the curse of God upon the liars."

(3:62) This is the narration of truth, there is no god except God; and
God is the Noble, the Wise.

(3:63) And if they turn away, then God is aware of the corrupters.

(3:64) Say: "O people of the Book, let us come to a common
understanding between us and between you; that we serve none except
God, and that we do not set up anything with Him, and that none of us
takes each other as patrons besides God." If they turn away, then say:
"Bear witness that we have submitted."

(3:65) "O people of the Book, why do you debate with us regarding
Abraham when the Torah and the Gospel were not sent down except after
him? Do you not comprehend?"

(3:66) Here you have debated in what you knew; so why then do you
debate in what you do not know? And God knows while you do not know.

(3:67) Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Nazarene, but he was a
monotheist who submitted; he was not of the polytheists.

(3:68) The most legitimate people to Abraham are those who followed
him; and this prophet, and those who believed; and God is the
supporter of the believers.

(3:69) A group from the people of the Book wished that they could
misguide you, but they only misguide themselves and they do not
notice.

(3:70) "O people of the Book, why do you reject the revelations of God
while you are bearing witness?"

(3:71) "O people of the Book, why do you confound the truth with
falsehood and conceal the truth while you know?"

(3:72) And a group from among the people of the Book said: "Believe in
what was sent down to those who believe during the beginning of the
day, and reject it by the end of it, perhaps they will return."

(3:73) "And do not believe except in he who follows your system." Say:
"The guidance is the guidance of God." That anyone should be given
similar to what you have been given, or that they debate with you at
your Lord. Say: "The bounty is in the hand of God, He gives it to whom
He chooses, and God is Encompassing, Knowledgeable."

(3:74) He singles out with His mercy whom He chooses, and God is with
Great Bounty.

(3:75) And from among the people of the Book are those whom if you
entrust him with a large amount he gives it back to you, and there are
those whom if you entrust with one gold coin he will not return it to
you unless you are standing over him. That is because they said: "We
have no obligation towards the Gentiles." They say about God lies
while they know.

(3:76) Indeed, anyone who fulfils his pledge and is righteous, then
God loves the righteous.

(3:77) The ones who purchase with the pledge of God and their oaths a
cheap price, those will have no portion in the Hereafter, and God will
not speak to them, nor will He look at them on the Day of
Resurrection, nor will He purify them, and they will have a painful
retribution.

(3:78) And from among them is a group who twist their tongues with the
Book so that you may think it is from the Book, while it is not from
the Book, and they say it is from God while it is not from God, and
they say about God lies while they know.

(3:79) It is not for any human being that God would give him the Book
and the authority and the prophethood, then he would say to the
people: "Be servants to me rather than God!" Rather: "Be Devotees for
what you have been taught of the Book, and of what you have studied."

(3:80) Nor does He order you that you take the angels and the prophets
as patrons. Would He order you to rejection after you have submitted?

(3:81) And God took a covenant from the prophets: "For what I have
given you of the Book and wisdom, then a messenger will come to you
authenticating what is with you. You will believe in him and support
him." He said: "Do you testify, and agree to this burden?" They said:
"We testify." He said: "Then bear witness, and I am with you bearing
witness."

(3:82) Whoever turns away after that, then they are the wicked.

(3:83) Is it other than the system of God that they desire, when those
in the heavens and the earth have submitted to Him voluntarily or by
force? And to Him they will be returned.

(3:84) Say: "We believe in God and what was sent down to us and what
was sent down to Abraham and Ishmael and Isaac and Jacob and the
Patriarchs, and what was given to Moses and Jesus and the prophets
from their Lord. We do not make a distinction between any of them, and
to Him we submit."

(3:85) And whoever follows other than submission as a system, it will
not be accepted from him, and in the Hereafter he is of the losers.

(3:86) How can God guide a people who have rejected after believing,
and they had witnessed that the messenger was true, and the clarity
had come to them? God does not guide the wicked people.

(3:87) To these the punishment will be that the curse of God will be
upon them and that of the angels and the people all together!

(3:88) Abiding therein, the retribution will not be lightened for
them, nor will they be reprieved.

(3:89) Except those who repent after this and make amends, then God is
Forgiver, Merciful.

(3:90) Those who have rejected after their belief, then increased in
rejection, their repentance will not be accepted, they are the
strayers.

(3:91) Those who have rejected and died while they were rejecters, if
the earth full of gold were to be ransomed with it would not be
accepted from any of them. For these there will be a painful
retribution and they will have no supporters.

(3:92) You will not reach piety until you spend from what you love;
and whatever you spend, God is aware of it.

(3:93) All the food was made lawful to the Children of Israel except
what Israel forbade for himself before the Torah was sent down. Say:
"Bring the Torah and recite it if you are truthful."

(3:94) Whoever invents lies about God after this, these are the
wicked.

(3:95) Say: "God bears truth. Follow the creed of Abraham, monotheism,
and he was not of the polytheists."

(3:96) The first Sanctuary established for the people is the one in
Bakk'a, blessed, and a guidance for the worlds.

(3:97) In it are clear signs: the station of Abraham. And whoever
enters it will be secure. And God is owed from the people to make
Pilgrimage to the Sanctuary, whoever can make a path to it. And
whoever rejects, then God has no need of the worlds.

(3:98) Say: "O people of the Book, why do you reject the revelations
of God, while God is witness over what you do?"

(3:99) Say: "O people of the Book, why do you repel from the path of
God those who believe? You wish to twist it while you are
witnesses. And God is not unaware of what you do."

(3:100) O you who believe, if you obey a group of those who received
the Book they will turn you after your belief into rejecters!

(3:101) And how can you reject when the revelations of God are being
recited to you and with you is His messenger? And whoever holds firmly
to God has been guided to the straight path.

(3:102) O you who believe, reverence God as He deserves to be
reverenced, and do not die except as ones who have submitted.

(3:103) And hold firmly to the rope of God, all of you, and do not be
separated. And remember the blessing of God upon you when you were
enemies and He united your hearts. Then you became, with His blessing,
brothers; and you were on the edge of a pit of fire and He saved you
from it; it is thus that God clarifies for you His signs that you may
be guided.

(3:104) And let there be a nation from among you who calls towards
goodness, and orders kindness, and prohibits vice. And these are the
successful ones.

(3:105) And do not be like those who separated and differed after the
clarity had come to them. And for them is a painful retribution.

(3:106) The Day on which faces will be lightened and faces will be
darkened; as for those whose faces will be darkened: "Did you reject
after believing? Taste the retribution for what you rejected."

(3:107) As for those whose faces will be lightened, they are in the
mercy of God, in it they abide.

(3:108) These are the revelations of God, We recite them to you with
the truth. God does not want wickedness for the worlds.

(3:109) And to God is all that is in the heavens and the earth; and to
God all matters are returned.

(3:110) You were the best nation that emerged for the people, you
ordered kindness and prohibited vice, and believed in God. If the
people of the Book believed it would have been better for them; from
among them are the believers, but the majority are the wicked.

(3:111) They will not harm you except in being an annoyance, and if
they fight you they will turn and flee, then they will not be
supported.

(3:112) They are struck with humiliation wherever they are
encountered, except for a rope from God and a rope from the
people. And they stayed in the wrath of God and were struck with
humiliation; that is because they were disbelieving in the revelations
of God and killing the prophets without right; that is for what they
disobeyed and were transgressing.

(3:113) They are not all the same, from the people of the Book are a
nation that is upright; they recite the revelations of God during the
night hours and they prostrate.

(3:114) They believe in God and the Last Day and order kindness and
prohibit vice, and they hasten in goodness; these are of the good
doers.

(3:115) And what they do of good will not be turned back, and God is
aware of the righteous.

(3:116) As for those who rejected, neither their money nor their
children will avail them anything from God. These are the people of
the Fire, in it they abide.

(3:117) The example of what they spend in this world is like a wind in
which there is a frost; it afflicts the field of the people who
wronged themselves, and thus destroys it. God did not wrong them, but
it was their souls that they wronged.

(3:118) O you who believe do not take as an inner-circle any from
besides yourselves; they will only disrupt you greatly. They wish that
you deviate; the hatred is apparent out of their mouths and what their
chests conceal is even greater! We have made clear for you the signs
if you comprehend.

(3:119) Here you love them while they do not love you, and you believe
in the entire Book. And if they meet you they say: "We believe," and
if they are alone they bite their fingers out of frustration at
you. Say: "Die in your frustration, God is aware of what is in the
chests."

(3:120) If any good befalls you it disturbs them, and if any bad
befalls you they rejoice with it. And if you are patient and righteous
their planning will not harm you at all. God is Encompassing all they
do.

(3:121) And as you departed from your family to prepare for the
believers their stations for battle - and God is Hearer,
Knowledgeable.

(3:122) When two parties from among you were obsessed that they would
fail; while God was their supporter. In God the believers should
trust.

(3:123) God had granted you victory at Badr, while you had been the
lesser, so reverence God that you may be thankful.

(3:124) When you said to the believers: "Is it not enough for you that
your Lord would supply you with three thousand of the angels sent
down?"

(3:125) Indeed, if you are patient and are righteous and they come and
attack you, He will supply you with five thousand of the angels battle
trained.

(3:126) And God did not give this except as good news to you, and so
that your hearts may be assured with it. Victory is only from God, the
Noble, the Wise.

(3:127) Thus He will sever a group of those who reject, or disgrace
them; then they will turn back frustrated.

(3:128) You will have no say in the matter, for He may pardon them, or
punish them; for they are wicked.

(3:129) And to God is what is in the heavens and in the earth, He
forgives whom He pleases, and He punishes whom He pleases; and God is
Forgiving, Merciful.

(3:130) O you who believe, do not consume usury, compounding over and
over; and reverence God that you may succeed.

(3:131) And be aware of the Fire that has been prepared for the
rejecters.

(3:132) And obey God and the messenger so that you may obtain mercy.

(3:133) And race towards forgiveness from your Lord and a Paradise
whose width encompasses the width of the heavens and of the earth; it
has been prepared for the righteous.

(3:134) The ones who spend in prosperity and hardship, and who repress
anger, and who pardon the people; God loves the good doers.

(3:135) And those who, if they commit lewdness, or wrong themselves,
they remember God and seek forgiveness for their sins. And who can
forgive the sins except God? And they do not persist in what they have
done while they know.

(3:136) To these the recompense will be forgiveness from their Lord
and estates with rivers flowing beneath them; abiding
therein. Excellent is the recompense of the workers.

(3:137) Many nations have come before you, so roam the earth and see
how the punishment was for the deniers.

(3:138) This is a clarification for the people and a reminder for the
righteous.

(3:139) Do not be weak, and do not grieve, for you will have the upper
hand, if you are believers.

(3:140) If you are wounded, then know that the other group is also
wounded. And such are the days, We alternate them between the people,
so that God will distinguish those who believe, and so He may make
witnesses from among you; and God does not love the wicked.

(3:141) And God will prove those who believe and He will condemn the
rejecters.

(3:142) Or did you think that you would enter the Paradise without God
distinguishing those who would strive among you and distinguishing
those who are patient?

(3:143) And you used to long for death before you came upon it; so now
you see it right in-front of you!

(3:144) And Mohammed is but a messenger, like many messengers who have
passed before him. If he dies or is killed will you turn back on your
heels? And whoever turns back on his heels, he will not harm God in
the least. And God will recompense the thankful.

(3:145) It is not permitted for a soul to die except by the permission
of God in an appointed record. And whoever wants the reward of this
world We give him of it, and whoever wants the reward of the
Hereafter, We give him of it. And We will reward the thankful.

(3:146) And many a prophet had a large number of Devotees fighting
with him. They did not waver by what afflicted them in the cause of
God, nor did they become weak, nor did they become discouraged; and
God loves the patient ones.

(3:147) And they did not say except: "Our Lord, forgive us our sins
and our shortcomings in our responsibility, and make firm our
foothold, and grant us victory over the rejecting people."

(3:148) So God gave them the reward of this world and the best reward
of the Hereafter; and God loves the good doers.

(3:149) O you who believe, if you obey those who have rejected, then
they will turn you back on your heels and you will turn back as
losers.

(3:150) It is God who is your Patron, and He is the best victor.

(3:151) We will cast terror in the hearts of those who have rejected,
because of what they have set up besides God while He never sent down
any authority to do so, and their destiny is the Fire. Miserable is
the abode of the wicked.

(3:152) And God has fulfilled His promise to you, that you would
overwhelm them with His permission; but then you failed and disputed
in the matter and disobeyed after He showed you what you had
sought. Some of you want this world, and some of you want the
Hereafter. Then He let you retreat from them that He may test you; and
He has pardoned you. God is with great grace over the believers.

(3:153) For you were ascending to the high ground and would not even
glance towards anyone, and the messenger was calling to you from
behind. Therefore He gave you worry to replace your worry, so that you
would not have sadness by what has passed you, or for what afflicted
you, and God is Expert over what you do.

(3:154) Then He sent down to you after the worry a tranquility in
sleepiness, it overtook a group of you; and another group was obsessed
with themselves, they were thinking about God other than the truth,
the thoughts of the days of ignorance. They say: "Why are we involved
in this affair?" Say: "The entire affair is for God." They hide in
their souls what they do not show to you, they say: "If we had a say
in this affair then none of us would have been killed here." Say: "If
you were inside your own homes, then the ones who had been marked for
death would have come out to their resting place." God will test what
is in your chests and bring out what is in your hearts. God is
Knowledgeable as to what is in the chests.

(3:155) Those of you who turned away on the day that the two hosts
met, it was the devil who caused them to slip due to some of what they
had earned. And God has pardoned them, for God is Forgiver,
Compassionate.

(3:156) O you who believe do not be like those who rejected and said
to their brothers when they had gone forth in the land or on the
offensive: "If they were here with us they would not have died nor
been killed." God will make this a source of grief in their hearts,
and God grants life and death, and God is watching over what you do.

(3:157) And if you are killed in the cause of God or die, then
forgiveness from God and mercy are far greater than all they can put
together.

(3:158) And if you die or are killed, then to God you will be
gathered.

(3:159) It was a mercy from God that you were soft towards them; had
you been harsh and hard-hearted, they would have dispersed from you;
so pardon them and ask forgiveness for them, and consult them in the
matter; but when you are convinced, then put your trust in God; for
God loves those who put their trust.

(3:160) If God grants you victory then none can defeat you, and if He
abandons you then who can grant you victory after Him? And towards God
the believers should put their trust.

(3:161) It was not for any prophet to embezzle, and he who embezzles
will be brought with what he has embezzled on the Day of Resurrection,
then every soul will be given what it has earned without being
wronged.

(3:162) Is he who follows the pleasure of God as he who draws the
wrath of God and his abode is Hell and a miserable destiny?

(3:163) They are in grades with God, and God is Seer of what they do.

(3:164) God has bestowed grace upon the believers by sending them a
messenger from among themselves reciting His revelations and purifying
them and teaching them the Book and the wisdom, and they were before
in manifest darkness.

(3:165) And so it was when you suffered setback; even though you
afflicted them with twice as much setback; you said: "Where is this
coming from?" Say: "It is from yourselves." God is capable of all
things.

(3:166) And what you suffered on the day the two hosts met was with
the permission of God, and to let the believers know.

(3:167) And to let those who are hypocrites know, that they were told:
"Come fight in the cause of God or defend," they said: "If we knew how
to fight we would have followed you." They are closer to rejection
than they are to belief. They say with their mouths what is not in
their hearts, and God is aware of what they conceal.

(3:168) Those who remained and said to their brothers: "If they obeyed
us they would not have been killed." Say: "Then avert death away from
yourselves if you are truthful!"

(3:169) And do not think that those who are killed in the cause of God
are dead. No, they are alive at their Lord receiving a bounty.

(3:170) Happy with what God has granted them from His grace, and they
rejoice in those who have yet to follow after them. There is no fear
upon them nor do they grieve.

(3:171) They rejoice with the bounty of God and grace; God will not
waste the recompense of the believers.

(3:172) Those who have answered God and the messenger after they were
afflicted with wounds. For those of them who did good and were
righteous is a great recompense.

(3:173) The ones who the people said to them: "The people have
gathered against you, so be concerned by them," but it only increased
their faith and they said: "God is sufficient for us, and He is the
best to put our trust in."

(3:174) So they came back with a recompense from God and a bounty, no
harm would touch them. And they had followed the pleasure of God, and
God is the One with great pleasure.

(3:175) It is only the devil trying to create fear for his allies, so
do not fear them, but fear Me if you are believers.

(3:176) And do not be saddened by those who rush into disbelief. They
will not harm God in the least. God does not wish to make for them any
share in the Hereafter, and they will have a painful retribution.

(3:177) Those who have purchased rejection with belief will not harm
God in the least, and they will have a painful retribution.

(3:178) And let not those who reject think that We are providing for
them out of the goodness of themselves. We are only providing for them
so that they may increase in transgression, and they will have a
humiliating retribution.

(3:179) God was not to leave the believers as they were without
distinguishing the rotten from the good. And God was not to let you
know the future, but God chooses from His messengers whom He wishes;
so believe in God and His messengers. And if you believe and are
righteous, then you will have a great recompense.

(3:180) And let not those who are stingy with what God has given them
of His bounty think that it is good for them, no, it is evil for
them. They will be surrounded by what they were stingy with on the Day
of Resurrection. And to God will be the inheritance of the heavens and
the earth; and God is Expert over what you do.

(3:181) God has heard the words of those who said: "God is poor and we
are rich!" We will record what they have said and their killing of the
prophets without right; and We will say: "Taste the retribution of the
Fire!"

(3:182) This is for what their hands have delivered, and God does not
wrong the servants.

(3:183) Those who said: "God has pledged to us that we should not
believe in a messenger unless he brings us an offering which the fire
will devour." Say: "Messengers have come to you before me with clarity
and with what you have said, so why did you kill them if you were
truthful?"

(3:184) If they deny you, then messengers before you were also denied;
they came with the proofs and the scriptures and the Book of
Enlightenment.

(3:185) Every soul will taste death, and you will be recompensed your
dues on the Day of Resurrection. Whoever is swayed from the Fire and
entered into the Paradise, he has indeed won. This worldly life is
nothing more than the enjoyment of vanity.

(3:186) We will test you in your wealth and in yourselves, and you
will hear from those who have been given the Book from before you and
from the polytheists much annoyance. And if you are patient and
righteous, then that is from a strength of conviction.

(3:187) And God took the covenant of those who were given the Book:
"You will make it clear to the people and not conceal it." But they
placed it behind their backs and purchased with it a cheap
price. Miserable indeed is what they have purchased.

(3:188) Do not think that those who are happy with what they have been
given, and they love to be praised for what they did not do; do not
think they are saved from the punishment. For them is a painful
retribution.

(3:189) And to God is the sovereignty of the heavens and the earth,
and God is capable of all things.

(3:190) In the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the
difference between the night and the day, are signs for those who
possess intelligence.

(3:191) Those who remember God while standing, and sitting, and on
their sides, and they ponder over the creation of the heavens and the
earth: "Our Lord you have not created this without purpose, glory to
You, spare us the retribution of the Fire!"

(3:192) "Our Lord, whoever You admit to the Fire has been
disgraced. The wicked will have no supporters."

(3:193) "Our Lord, we have heard a caller inviting to the faith:
"Believe in your Lord," so we have believed. Our Lord forgive us our
bad deeds, and forgive our sins, and let us die in the company of the
righteous."

(3:194) "Our Lord, and grant us what You have promised through Your
messengers, and do not embarrass us on the Day of Resurrection. You do
not break the promise."

(3:195) Their Lord answered them: "I do not waste the work of any
worker from among you, whether male or female, you are all as each
other. For those who emigrated and were driven-out from their homes
and were harmed in My cause, and they fought and were killed, I will
forgive for them their sins and admit them to estates with rivers
flowing beneath them." A recompense from God; and God has the best
recompense.

(3:196) Do not be deceived by the success of those who have rejected
in the land.

(3:197) A brief enjoyment, then their abode is Hell. What a miserable
abode!

(3:198) As for those who reverence their Lord, they will have estates
with rivers flowing beneath them; abiding therein as a dwelling from
God. What is with God is better for the obedient.

(3:199) And from the people of the Book are those who believe in God
and what was sent down to you and what was sent down to them; fearful
to God, they do not purchase with the revelations of God a cheap
price. These will have their recompense with their Lord. For God is
swift in reckoning.

(3:200) O you who believe, be patient and call for patience, and stand
firm, and reverence God that you may succeed.














