(35:1) Praise be to God, Initiator of the heavens and the earth; maker
of the angels as messengers with wings of two, and three, and four. He
increases in the creation as He wishes. God is able to do all things.

(35:2) Whatever mercy God opens for the people, none can stop it. And
what He holds back none can send it other than He. And He is the
Noble, the Wise.

(35:3) O people, remember the blessings of God upon you. Is there any
creator other than God who provides for you from the heaven and the
earth? There is no god besides Him, so why do you deviate?

(35:4) And if they deny you, then also messengers before you have been
denied. And to God all matters are returned.

(35:5) O people, the promise of God is the truth; therefore, do not be
overwhelmed by this worldly life, and do not let arrogance overwhelm
you from God.

(35:6) The devil is an enemy to you, so treat him as an enemy. He only
invites his faction to be the dwellers of Hell.

(35:7) Those who reject will have a painful retribution, and those who
believe and do good works they will have a forgiveness and a great
reward.

(35:8) As for he whose evil work is adorned for him so he sees it as
being good; for God thus misguides whom He wills, and He guides whom
He wills. So do not let yourself grieve over them. God is fully aware
of what they are doing.

(35:9) And God is the One who sends the winds so it stirs up a cloud,
then We drive it to a land that is dead, and We revive with it the
earth after it had died. Such is the resurrection.

(35:10) Whoever is seeking dignity, then know that to God belongs all
dignity. To Him ascend the good words, and the good deeds raise them
up. And as for those who scheme evil, they will have a painful
retribution, and their scheming will fail.

(35:11) And God created you from dust, then from a seed, then He made
you into pairs. And no female becomes pregnant, nor gives birth,
without His knowledge. Nor does anyone have his life extended, or his
life is shortened, except in a record. This is easy for God.

(35:12) Nor are the two seas the same. One is fresh and palatable,
good to drink, while the other is salty and bitter. And from each of
them you eat tender meat, and you extract jewelry to wear. And you see
the ships sailing through them, seeking His provisions; and perhaps
you may be thankful.

(35:13) He merges the night into the day, and He merges the day into
the night. And He has commissioned the sun and the moon, each running
for an appointed term. Such is God your Lord; to Him is the
sovereignty. And as for those whom you pray to besides Him, they do
not possess even the shell of a seed.

(35:14) If you pray to them, they cannot hear you. And even if they
hear you, they cannot respond to you. And on the Day of Resurrection,
they will reject your partnership. And none can inform you like an
Expert.

(35:15) O people, you are the poor when it comes to God, while God is
the Rich, the Praiseworthy.

(35:16) If He wishes, He could do away with you and He would bring a
new creation.

(35:17) And this is not difficult for God.

(35:18) And none can carry the load of another; and even if it calls
on another to bear part of its load, no other can carry any part of
it, even if they were related. You will only be able to warn those who
are concerned towards their Lord while unseen, and they hold the
contact prayer. And whoever contributes, is contributing for
himself. And to God is the final destiny.

(35:19) The blind and the seer are not equal.

(35:20) Nor are the darkness and the light.

(35:21) Nor are the shade and the heat.

(35:22) Nor equal are the living and the dead; God causes whoever He
wills to hear; and you cannot make those who are in the graves hear.

(35:23) You are but a warner.

(35:24) We have sent you with the truth as a bearer of good news and a
warner. There was not a nation that a warner did not come to it.

(35:25) And if they deny you, then those before them have also
denied. Their messengers went to them with the proofs and the
scriptures and the Book of Enlightenment.

(35:26) Then I seized those who rejected; so how was My retribution!

(35:27) Do you not see that God sends down water from the sky, thus We
produce with it fruits of various colors? And of the mountains are
peaks that are white, red, or some other color and intense black.

(35:28) And from the people, and the animals, and the livestock, are
various colors. Those concerned with God from among His servants are
the most knowledgeable. God is Noble, Forgiving.

(35:29) Surely, those who recite the Book of God and hold the contact
prayer, and spend secretly and openly from what We have provided them,
they are seeking a trade that can never lose.

(35:30) He will give them their recompense, and He will increase them
from His blessings. He is Forgiving, Thankful.

(35:31) And what We inspired to you from the Book, it is the truth,
authenticating what is between his hands. God is Expert over His
servants, Seer.

(35:32) Then We inherited the Book to those whom We selected from Our
servants. Subsequently, some of them wronged themselves, and others
upheld it partly, while others were eager to work righteousness in
accordance with the will of God; such is the great benefit.

(35:33) They will enter gardens of delight, where they will be adorned
with bracelets of gold and pearls, and their garments in it will be of
silk.

(35:34) And they will say: "Praise be to God who took away our
sorrow. Our Lord is Forgiving, Thankful."

(35:35) "The One who admitted us into the abode of eternal bliss, out
of His grace. In it, no boredom touches us, nor does any fatigue."

(35:36) As for those who have rejected, for them is the fire of Hell,
where they do not terminate and die, nor is its retribution ever
reduced for them. It is such that We requite every rejecter.

(35:37) And they will scream in it: "Our Lord, let us out, and we will
work righteousness instead of the works we used to do." Did We not
give you a long life so that he who would remember would take heed,
and a warner came to you? Therefore, taste, for the transgressors will
have no supporter.

(35:38) God knows the unseen of the heavens and the earth. He is
knowledgeable of what is even in the chests.

(35:39) He is the One who made you successors on the earth. So,
whoever rejects, then to him is his rejection. And the rejection of
the rejecters only increases the abhorrence of their Lord towards
them. The rejection of the rejecters only increases their loss.

(35:40) Say: "Do you see the partners whom you have called on besides
God? Show me what they have created on the earth. Or do they possess
any partnership in the heavens? Or have We given them a book wherein
they are taking knowledge from it? Indeed, what the transgressors
promise one another is no more than arrogance."

(35:41) God is the One who holds the heavens and the earth, lest they
cease to exist. And they would certainly cease to exist if anyone else
were to hold them after Him. He is Compassionate, Forgiving.

(35:42) And they swore by God in their strongest oaths, that if a
warner came to them, they would be the most guided of all nations, but
when a warner came to them, it only increased their aversion!

(35:43) Arrogance on the earth, and evil scheming. And the evil
schemes only backfire on those who scheme them. Were they expecting
anything different from the ways used on the people of the past? You
will not find any change in the way of God, and you will not find any
bypass to the way of God.

(35:44) Did they not roam the earth and note how was the consequence
for those who were before them? And they were even more powerful than
they in strength. But nothing can inhibit God be it in the heavens, or
the earth. He is Knowledgeable, Omnipotent.

(35:45) And if God were to punish the people for what they have
earned, He would not leave a single creature standing. But He delays
them to an appointed term. So, when their time comes, then God is Seer
of His servants.














