(36:1) YS.

(36:2) And the Qur'an of wisdom.

(36:3) You are one of the messengers.

(36:4) Upon a straight path.

(36:5) The revelation of the Most Honorable, the Merciful.

(36:6) To warn a people whose fathers were not warned, for they are
unaware.

(36:7) The retribution has been deserved by most of them, for they do
not believe.

(36:8) We have placed shackles around their necks, up to their chins,
so that they are forced in place.

(36:9) And We have placed a barrier in front of them, and a barrier
behind them, thus We shielded them so they cannot see.

(36:10) And whether you warn them or do not warn them, they will not
believe.

(36:11) You can only warn him who follows the Reminder, and is
concerned towards the Almighty while unseen. Give him good news of
forgiveness and a generous reward.

(36:12) It is indeed Us who resurrect the dead, and We record what
they have done and left behind. And everything We have counted in a
clear ledger.

(36:13) And put forth for them the example of the people of the town,
when the messengers came to it.

(36:14) Where We sent two to them, but they disbelieved in them, so We
supported them with a third one, thus they said: "We are messengers to
you."

(36:15) They said: "You are but human beings like us, and the Almighty
did not send down anything, you are only telling lies."

(36:16) They said: "Our Lord knows that we have been sent to you."

(36:17) "And we are only required to give a clear delivery."

(36:18) They said: "We have welcomed you better than you deserve. If
you do not cease, we will stone you, and you will receive a painful
retribution from us!"

(36:19) They said: "Keep your welcome with you, for you have been
reminded. Indeed, you are transgressing people."

(36:20) And a man came running from the farthest part of the city,
saying: "O my people, follow the messengers."

(36:21) "Follow those who do not ask you for any wage, and are
guided."

(36:22) "And why should I not serve the One who initiated me, and to
Him is your ultimate return?"

(36:23) "Shall I take gods besides Him? If the Almighty intends any
harm for me, their intercession cannot help me in the least, nor can
they save me."

(36:24) "Then I would be clearly astray."

(36:25) "I have believed in your Lord, so listen to me!"

(36:26) It was said: "Enter the Paradise." He said "Oh, how I wish if
only my people knew!"

(36:27) "Of what my Lord has forgiven me, and made me of the honored
ones."

(36:28) And We did not send down upon his people after him soldiers
from the heaven; for there was no need to send them down.

(36:29) For all it took was one scream, whereupon they were stilled.

(36:30) What sorrow for the servants. For every time a messenger went
to them, they would mock him.

(36:31) Did they not see how many generations We destroyed before
them, do they not go back to them?

(36:32) And how every one of them will be summoned before Us.

(36:33) And a sign for them is the dead land, We revive it and produce
from it seeds from which they eat.

(36:34) And We made in it gardens of date palms, and grapes, and We
cause springs to gush forth therein.

(36:35) So that they may eat from its fruits, and what they
manufacture with their own hands. Would they be thankful?

(36:36) Praise be to the One who has created all pairs from what the
earth sprouts out and from themselves, and from what they do not know.

(36:37) And a sign for them is the night, We strip the daylight from
it, whereupon they are in darkness.

(36:38) And the sun runs to a specific destination, such is the design
of the Noble, the Knowledgeable.

(36:39) And the moon We have measured it to appear in stages, until it
returns like an old palm sheath.

(36:40) The sun is not required to overtake the moon, nor will the
night precede the day; each of them is swimming in its own orbit.

(36:41) And a sign for them is that We carried their ancestors on the
charged ship.

(36:42) And We created for them of its similarity, to ride in.

(36:43) And if We wished, We could drown them, so that their screaming
would not be heard, nor could they be saved.

(36:44) Except through a mercy from Us, and as an enjoyment for
awhile.

(36:45) And when they are told: "Be aware of your present and your
past, that you may attain mercy."

(36:46) And no matter what sign comes to them from the signs of their
Lord, they turn away from it.

(36:47) And when they are told: "Spend from what God has provisioned
you." Those who reject say to those who believe: "Shall we feed those
whom God could feed, if He so willed? You are clearly misguided!"

(36:48) And they say: "When is this promise to come, if you are
truthful?"

(36:49) They will not realize it when one scream overwhelms them,
while they dispute.

(36:50) They will not even be able to leave a will, nor will they be
able to return to their people.

(36:51) And the horn will be blown, whereupon they will rise from the
graves massing towards their Lord.

(36:52) They will say: "Woe to us! Who has resurrected us from our
resting place? This is what the Almighty had promised; and the
messengers were truthful!"

(36:53) It only took one scream, whereupon they are summoned before
Us.

(36:54) On this Day, no soul will be wronged in the least. You will be
recompensed precisely for whatever you did.

(36:55) The dwellers of the Paradise will be, on that Day, joyfully
busy.

(36:56) Both them and their spouses, they will be shaded, reclining on
raised couches.

(36:57) They will have fruits therein; they will have in it whatever
they ask for.

(36:58) Saying of: "Peace" from a Merciful Lord.

(36:59) "As for you, O criminals, you are singled out."

(36:60) "Did I not pledge to you, O Children of Adam, that you should
not serve the devil for he is your most ardent enemy?"

(36:61) "And that you should serve Me? That is a straight path."

(36:62) "He has misled mountain loads of you. Did you not comprehend?"

(36:63) "This is Hell that you have been promised!"

(36:64) "Burn in it today, as a consequence of your rejection."

(36:65) Today, We shall cease their mouths, and their hands will speak
to Us, and their feet will bear witness to everything they had done.

(36:66) And if We wished, We can blind their eyes, and they would race
towards the path, but how would they see?

(36:67) And if We wished, We can freeze them in their place; thus,
they can neither move forward, nor go back.

(36:68) And for whoever We grant a long life, We weaken him in
body. Do they not comprehend?

(36:69) And We did not teach him poetry, nor does he need it. This is
a reminder and a clear Qur'an.

(36:70) To warn those who are alive, and so that the retribution will
be deserved by the rejecters.

(36:71) Did they not see that We created for them with Our own hands
livestock which they own?

(36:72) And they were subdued by Us for them. So some they ride, and
some they eat.

(36:73) And they have benefits in them, and to drink. Would they not
be thankful?

(36:74) And they have taken besides God other gods, perhaps they will
help them!

(36:75) They cannot help them; while they are soldiers for them.

(36:76) So do not be saddened by what they say. We are fullyaware of
what they conceal and what they declare.

(36:77) Has man not seen that We have created him from a seed, but he
then becomes a clear opponent?

(36:78) And he puts forth an example for Us, while forgetting his own
creation! He says: "Who can resurrect the bones while they are dust?"

(36:79) Say: "The One who has made them in the first place will
resurrect them. He is fully aware of every creation."

(36:80) The One who initiated for you a forest fire, by which you
learned to light.

(36:81) Is not the One who has created the heavens and the earth able
to create the like of them? Yes indeed; He is the Creator, the
Knowledgeable.

(36:82) His command, when He wants anything, is to say to it: 'Be,'
and it is.

(36:83) Therefore, praise be to the One in whose Hand is the
sovereignty of all things, and to Him you will be returned.














