(37:1) By the columns in formation.

(37:2) By the drivers of clouds.

(37:3) By the remembrance which follows.

(37:4) Your god is indeed One.

(37:5) The Lord of the heavens and the earth, and what lies between
them, and the Lord of the sunrises.

(37:6) We have adorned the lower heaven with the decoration of
planets.

(37:7) And to guard against every rebellious devil.

(37:8) They cannot listen to the command up high; and they are
bombarded from every side.

(37:9) Outcasts; they will have an eternal retribution.

(37:10) Any of them who snatches a part, he is pursued by a piercing
flame.

(37:11) So ask them: "Are they the more powerful creation, or the
others We created?" We have created them from a clay that is sticky.

(37:12) While you were awed, they simply mocked.

(37:13) And when they are reminded, they do not care.

(37:14) And when they see a sign, they make fun of it.

(37:15) And they said: "This is nothing except evident magic!"

(37:16) "Can it be that after we die and become dust and bones, that
we are resurrected?"

(37:17) "What about our fathers of old?"

(37:18) Say: "Yes, and you will be humbled."

(37:19) All it takes is one sound, then they will be staring.

(37:20) And they said: "Woe to us, this is the Day of Recompense!"

(37:21) This is the Day of decisiveness that you used to deny.

(37:22) Gather the transgressors, and their mates, and all they
worshiped.

(37:23) Beside God, and guide them to the path of Hell.

(37:24) And let them stand and be questioned:

(37:25) "Why do you not support one another?"

(37:26) No, for today they have totally given up.

(37:27) And some of them came to each other, questioning.

(37:28) They said: "You used to entice us from the right side."

(37:29) They replied: "No, it was you who were not believers."

(37:30) "And we never had any power over you, but you were a wicked
people."

(37:31) "So the decree of our Lord is now upon us, that we will
suffer."

(37:32) "We misled you, because we were astray."

(37:33) Then, on that Day they will all share in the retribution.

(37:34) This is how We deal with the criminals.

(37:35) When it was said to them: "There is no god except God," they
would be arrogant.

(37:36) And they would say: "Shall we leave our gods because of a
crazy poet?"

(37:37) No, he has come with the truth and he has confirmed the
messengers.

(37:38) You will taste the greatest of retribution.

(37:39) And you are only recompensed for what you have done.

(37:40) Except for the servants God who are faithful.

(37:41) For them will be known provisions.

(37:42) Fruits, and they will be honored.

(37:43) In gardens of bliss.

(37:44) On beds which are opposite one another.

(37:45) They will be served with a cup of pure drink.

(37:46) White, delicious for the drinkers.

(37:47) There is no bitterness therein, nor will they tire from it.

(37:48) And with them are those with a modest gaze, with lovely eyes.

(37:49) They are like fragile eggs.

(37:50) So then they approached one another, questioning.

(37:51) One of them said: "I used to have a friend."

(37:52) "Who used to say: 'Are you among those who believe in this?'

(37:53) 'That if we die and turn into dust and bones, that we would be
called to account?'"

(37:54) He said: "Can anyone find him?"

(37:55) So when he looked, he saw him in the midst of Hell.

(37:56) He said: "By God, you nearly ruined me!"

(37:57) "And had it not been for the blessing of my Lord, I would have
been with you."

(37:58) "Are we then not going to die,"

(37:59) "Except for our first death, and we will not be punished?"

(37:60) Such is the great triumph.

(37:61) For this let those who will work endeavor.

(37:62) Is that a better destination, or the tree of Bitterness?

(37:63) We have made it a punishment for the transgressors.

(37:64) It is a tree that grows in the midst of Hell.

(37:65) Its shoots are like the devils' heads.

(37:66) They will eat from it, so that their bellies are filled up.

(37:67) Then they will have with it a drink of boiling liquid.

(37:68) Then they will be returned to Hell.

(37:69) They had found their parents astray.

(37:70) So they too have hastened in their footsteps.

(37:71) Most of the previous generations have strayed before them.

(37:72) And We had sent to them warners.

(37:73) Thus note the consequences for those who were warned.

(37:74) Except for the servants of God who are faithful.

(37:75) And Noah had called upon Us, for We are the best to respond.

(37:76) And We saved him and his family from the great disaster.

(37:77) And We made his progeny the one that remained.

(37:78) And We kept his history for those who came later.

(37:79) Peace be upon Noah among the worlds.

(37:80) It is such that We reward the righteous.

(37:81) He is of Our believing servants.

(37:82) Then We drowned the others.

(37:83) And from his clan was Abraham.

(37:84) For he came to his Lord with a pure heart.

(37:85) When he said to his father and his people: "What are you
worshiping?"

(37:86) "Is it fabricated gods, instead of God, that you want?"

(37:87) "What do you say of the Lord of the worlds?"

(37:88) Then he looked towards the stars.

(37:89) And he said: "I am ill!"

(37:90) So they turned away from him and departed.

(37:91) He then went to their gods and said: "Can you not eat?"

(37:92) "What is the matter, you do not speak?"

(37:93) So he then turned on them, striking with his hand.

(37:94) Then they approached him outraged.

(37:95) He said: "Do you worship what you carve?"

(37:96) "While God has created you, and all that you make!"

(37:97) They said: "Build for him a structure, and then cast him into
its fire."

(37:98) So they wanted to plan against him, but We made them the
losers.

(37:99) And he said: "I am going to my Lord; He will guide me."

(37:100) "My Lord, grant me from among the righteous."

(37:101) So We gave him good news of a compassionate child.

(37:102) And when he grew enough to work with him, he said: "My son, I
am seeing in a dream that I am sacrificing you. What do you think?" He
said: "O my father, do what you are commanded to do. You will find me,
God willing, patient."

(37:103) So when they both had submitted, and he was laid by his
forehead.

(37:104) And We called him: "O Abraham,"

(37:105) "You have carried out the vision." It was such that We
rewarded the righteous.

(37:106) Surely, this was an exacting test.

(37:107) And We ransomed him with a great animal sacrifice.

(37:108) And We kept his history for those who came later.

(37:109) Peace be upon Abraham.

(37:110) It is thus that We reward the righteous.

(37:111) He was of Our believing servants.

(37:112) And We gave him the good news of the coming of Isaac, a
prophet from among the righteous.

(37:113) And We blessed him and Isaac. And from among their progeny,
some are righteous, and some are clearly wicked.

(37:114) And indeed, We have given Our grace to Moses and Aaron.

(37:115) And We saved them and their people from the great disaster.

(37:116) And We supported them, so that they became the winners.

(37:117) And We gave both the clear Book.

(37:118) And We guided them to the straight path.

(37:119) And We kept their history for those who came later.

(37:120) Peace be upon Moses and Aaron.

(37:121) We thus reward the righteous.

(37:122) Both of them were among Our believing servants.

(37:123) And Elias was one of the messengers.

(37:124) When he said to his people: "Would you not be righteous?"

(37:125) "Would you call on Ba'al and forsake the best Creator?"

(37:126) "God is your Lord, and the Lord of your fathers of old!"

(37:127) But they denied him. Thus they were called to account.

(37:128) Except for the devoted servants of God.

(37:129) And We kept his history for those who came later.

(37:130) Peace be upon the family of Elias.

(37:131) We thus reward the righteous.

(37:132) He was one of our believing servants.

(37:133) And Lot was one of the messengers.

(37:134) When We saved him and all his family.

(37:135) Except an old woman who remained.

(37:136) Then, We destroyed the rest.

(37:137) And you pass by them in the morning;

(37:138) And in the night. Do you not comprehend?

(37:139) And Jonah was one of the messengers.

(37:140) When he escaped to the charged ship.

(37:141) And he was guilty, so he became among the losers.

(37:142) Thus a whale swallowed him, and he was the one to blame.

(37:143) And had it not been that he was one of those who implored,

(37:144) He would have stayed in its belly until the Day of
Resurrection.

(37:145) So We threw him on the shore while he was sick.

(37:146) And We caused a tree of gourd to grow on him.

(37:147) And We sent him to a hundred thousand, or more.

(37:148) And they believed, so We gave them enjoyment for a time.

(37:149) So ask them: "Are the daughters for your Lord, while the sons
are for them?"

(37:150) Or did We create the angels as females while they witnessed?

(37:151) Indeed, it is out of their falsehood that they say:

(37:152) "The son of God." And they are liars.

(37:153) Has He chosen the daughters over the sons?

(37:154) What is wrong with you, how do you judge?

(37:155) Will you not remember?

(37:156) Or do you have a clear proof?

(37:157) Bring forth your book, if you are truthful.

(37:158) And they invented a kinship between Him and the Jinn. But the
Jinn know that they will be gathered.

(37:159) God be glorified from what they describe.

(37:160) Except for the servants of God who are faithful.

(37:161) "As for you and what you worship."

(37:162) "You cannot lead away from Him."

(37:163) "Except those who are destined to Hell."

(37:164) "Every one of us has a destined station."

(37:165) "And we are the ones who are in columns."

(37:166) "And we are the ones that glorify."

(37:167) And they used to say:

(37:168) "If only we had received a reminder from the previous
generations,"

(37:169) "We would have surely been loyal servants of God."

(37:170) But they rejected it. They will come to know.

(37:171) Our word had been decreed to Our servants who were sent.

(37:172) That they would be made victorious.

(37:173) And that Our soldiers are the winners.

(37:174) So turn away from them for awhile.

(37:175) And observe them; for they will see.

(37:176) Do they seek to hasten Our retribution?

(37:177) When it comes down to their courtyard, dire will be the
morning for those who have been warned.

(37:178) And turn away from them for awhile.

(37:179) And observe; for they will see.

(37:180) Glory be to your Lord, the Lord of greatness, for what they
have described.

(37:181) And peace be upon the messengers.

(37:182) And praise be to God, Lord of the worlds.














