(38:1) S', and the Qur'an that contains the remembrance.

(38:2) Indeed, those who have disbelieved are in false pride and
defiance.

(38:3) How many a generation have We destroyed before them. And they
called out when it was far too late.

(38:4) And they were surprised that a warner has come to them from
among themselves. And the rejecters said: "This is a magician, a
liar."

(38:5) "Has he made the gods into One god? This is indeed a strange
thing!"

(38:6) And the leaders among them went out: "Walk away, and remain
patient to your gods. This thing can be turned back."

(38:7) "We never heard of this from the people before us. This is but
an innovation."

(38:8) "Has the remembrance been sent down to him, from between all of
us!" Indeed, they are doubtful of My reminder. Indeed, they have not
yet tasted My retribution.

(38:9) Or do they have the treasures of mercy of your Lord, the Noble,
the Grantor.

(38:10) Or do they possess the dominion of the heavens and the earth,
and all that is between them? Then let them bring their own solutions.

(38:11) The Confederates that have gathered will be defeated.

(38:12) Disbelieving before them were the people of Noah, 'Aad, and
Pharaoh with the planks.

(38:13) And Thamud, and the people of Lot, and the people of the
Sycamore; these are the Confederates.

(38:14) Each of them disbelieved the messengers, therefore My
retribution came to be.

(38:15) And what these people are waiting for is a single scream, from
which they will not recover.

(38:16) And they said: "Our Lord, hasten for us our punishment, before
the Day of Reckoning."

(38:17) Be patient to what they say, and recall Our servant David, the
resourceful. He was obedient.

(38:18) We commissioned the mountains to glorify with him, at dusk and
dawn.

(38:19) And the birds were gathered; all were obedient to him.

(38:20) And We strengthened his kingship, and We gave him the wisdom
and the ability to make sound judgment.

(38:21) Did the news come to you of the disputing party who came over
into the temple enclosure?

(38:22) When they entered upon David, he was startled by them. They
said: "Have no fear. We are two who have disputed, and one has wronged
the other, so judge between us with the truth, and do not wrong us,
and guide us to the right path."

(38:23) "This is my brother and he owns ninety-nine lambs, while I own
one lamb; so he said to me: "'Let me take care of it' and he pressured
me."

(38:24) He said: "He has wronged you by asking to combine your lamb
with his lambs. And many who mix their properties take advantage of
one another, except those who believe and do good works, and these are
very few." And David guessed that We had tested him, so he sought
forgiveness from his Lord, and fell down kneeling, and repented.

(38:25) So We forgave him in this matter. And for him with Us is a
near position, and a beautiful abode.

(38:26) O David, We have made you a successor on the earth. Therefore,
you shall judge among the people with the truth, and do not follow
desire, lest it diverts you from the path of God. Indeed, those who
stray off the path of God will have a severe retribution for
forgetting the Day of Reckoning.

(38:27) And We did not create the heaven and the earth, and everything
between them, in vain. Such is the thinking of those who
rejected. Therefore, woe to those who have rejected from the Fire.

(38:28) Or shall We treat those who believe and do good works as We
treat those who make corruption on the earth? Or shall We treat the
righteous as the wicked?

(38:29) A Book that We have sent down to you, that is blessed, so that
they may reflect upon its revelations, and so that those who possess
intelligence will take heed.

(38:30) And to David We granted Solomon. What an excellent and
obedient servant.

(38:31) When, before evening, well trained horses were displayed
before him.

(38:32) He said: "I have enjoyed materialism more than I enjoyed the
remembrance of my Lord; until it had set beyond the horizon!"

(38:33) "Send them back." He then rubbed their legs and necks.

(38:34) And We tested Solomon and placed a corpse upon his throne, but
he then repented.

(38:35) He said: "My Lord, forgive me, and grant me a kingship that
will never be attained by anyone after me. You are the Grantor."

(38:36) So, We commissioned the wind to run by his command, raining
gently where he directed it.

(38:37) And the devils, building and diving.

(38:38) And others, held by restraints.

(38:39) "This is Our gift, so you may spend or withhold, without any
repercussions."

(38:40) And he has a near position with Us, and a wonderful abode.

(38:41) And recall Our servant Job, when he called upon his Lord: "The
devil has afflicted me with an illness and pain."

(38:42) "Rapidly move with your foot, here is a cold spring to wash
with and to drink."

(38:43) And We restored his family to him along with a group like
them, as a mercy from Us; and a reminder for those who possess
intelligence.

(38:44) "And take in your hand a bundle and go forth with it, and do
not break your oath." We found him steadfast. What a good servant! He
was obedient.

(38:45) And recall Our servants Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They were
resourceful, and with vision.

(38:46) We had chosen them to enforce awareness of the Hereafter.

(38:47) And they are with Us of the elite, the best.

(38:48) And recall Ishmael, Elisha, and Isaiah; all are among the
best.

(38:49) This is a reminder, and the righteous will have a wonderful
abode.

(38:50) Gardens of delight, whose gates will be open for them.

(38:51) Reclining therein, they will be invited to many fruits and
drinks.

(38:52) And with them are those with a modest gaze, mature in age.

(38:53) This is what you have been promised for the Day of Reckoning.

(38:54) Such is Our provisions, it does not run out.

(38:55) This is so, and for the transgressors is a miserable destiny.

(38:56) Hell is where they burn. What a miserable abode!

(38:57) This is so, and let them taste what is boiling and dark.

(38:58) And other multitudes that are similar to that.

(38:59) Here is another group to be thrown into Hell with you. "We
have no welcome for them, for they shall burn in the Fire."

(38:60) They said: "No, you are the ones without welcome. It was you
who presented this to us, what a miserable result!"

(38:61) They said: "Our Lord, whoever brought this upon us, then
double their retribution in the Fire!"

(38:62) And they said: "Why do we not see some men whom we used to
count among the wicked?"

(38:63) "Did we mock them erroneously, or have our eyes failed to find
them?"

(38:64) Surely, this is in truth the feuding of the people of Hell.

(38:65) Say: "I am but a warner; and there is no god besides God, the
One, the Supreme."

(38:66) "The Lord of the heavens and the earth, and everything between
them; the Noble, the Forgiving."

(38:67) Say: "It is an awesome news."

(38:68) "From which you turn away."

(38:69) "I had no knowledge of the command up high, that they had
quarreled."

(38:70) "It is only inspired to me that I am a clear warner."

(38:71) For your Lord said to the angels: "I am creating a human being
from clay."

(38:72) "So when I have evolved him, and blow of My Spirit in him,
then you shall yield to him."

(38:73) The angels yielded, all of them,

(38:74) Except Satan; he turned arrogant, and became one of the
rejecters.

(38:75) He said: "O Satan, what prevented you from yielding to what I
have created by My hands? Are you too arrogant? Or are you one of
those exalted?"

(38:76) He said: "I am better than he; You created me from fire, and
created him from clay."

(38:77) He said: "Therefore exit from it, you are outcast."

(38:78) "And My curse will be upon you until the Day of Recompense."

(38:79) He said: "My Lord, respite me until the Day they are
resurrected."

(38:80) He said: "You are respited."

(38:81) "Until the appointed Day."

(38:82) He said: "By Your majesty, I will mislead them all."

(38:83) "Except for Your servants who are loyal."

(38:84) He said: "The truth, and the truth is what I say."

(38:85) "That I will fill Hell with you and all those who follow you."

(38:86) Say: "I do not ask you for any wage, nor am I a fraud."

(38:87) "It is but a reminder for the worlds."

(38:88) "And you will come to know its news after awhile."














