(42:1) HM.

(42:2) A'SQ.

(42:3) Similarly, inspiring you and those before you, is God, the
Noble, the Wise.

(42:4) To Him belongs all what is in the heavens and the earth, and He
is the Most High, the Great.

(42:5) The heavens would nearly shatter from above them, and the
angels praise the glory of their Lord, and they ask forgiveness for
those on the earth. Surely, God is the Forgiver, the Merciful.

(42:6) And those who take allies besides Him, God is responsible for
them; and you are not a guardian over them.

(42:7) And thus We have inspired to you an Arabic revelation, so that
you may warn the capital town and all around it, and to warn about the
Day of Gathering that is inevitable. A group will be in the Paradise,
and a group in Hell.

(42:8) And if God had willed, He could have made them one nation. But
He admits whom He wills into His mercy. And the transgressors will
have neither an ally, nor helper.

(42:9) Or have they taken allies besides Him? But God is the ally, and
He is the One who resurrects the dead, and He is able to do all
things.

(42:10) And anything you dispute in, then its judgment shall be with
God. Such is God my Lord. In Him I place my trust, and to Him I
repent.

(42:11) Initiator of the heavens and the earth. He created for you
from among yourselves mates, and also mates for the livestock so they
may multiply. There is nothing that equals Him. He is the Hearer, the
Seer.

(42:12) To Him belong the possessions of the heavens and the earth. He
spreads out the provision for whoever He wills, and He measures it. He
is fully aware of all things.

(42:13) He has decreed for you the same system He ordained for Noah,
and what We inspired to you, and what We ordained for Abraham, Moses,
and Jesus: "You shall uphold this system, and do not divide in it."
Intolerable for the polytheists is what you invite them towards. God
chooses for Himself whoever He wills; He guides to Himself those who
repent.

(42:14) And they only divided after the knowledge had come to them,
due to resentment among themselves. And had it not been for a
predetermined decision from your Lord, they would have been judged
immediately. Indeed, those who inherited the Book after them are full
of doubts.

(42:15) For that, you shall preach and be upright, as you have been
commanded, and do not follow their wishes. And say: "I believe in all
that God has sent down as a Book, and I was commanded to be with
justice between you. God is our Lord and your Lord. We have our deeds
and you have your deeds. There is no argument between us and you. God
will gather us all together, and to Him is the ultimate destiny."

(42:16) And those who debate about God, after they had been answered,
their argument is nullified at their Lord. They have incurred a wrath,
and will have a severe retribution.

(42:17) God is the One who sent down the Book with the truth, and the
balance. And for all that you know, the Hour may be very near.

(42:18) Those who do not believe in it seek to hasten it, while those
who believe are concerned about it, and they know that it is the
truth. Certainly, those who dispute the Hour have gone far astray.

(42:19) God is Gracious to His servants; He gives provisions for
whoever He wills, and He is the Powerful, the Noble.

(42:20) Whoever desires the harvest of the Hereafter, We will increase
for him his harvest. And whoever seeks the harvest of this world, We
will give him therefrom, and he will have no share in the Hereafter.

(42:21) Or do they have partners who decree for them a system which
has not been authorized by God? And if it were not for the word
already given, they would have been judged immediately. Indeed, the
transgressors will have a painful retribution.

(42:22) You see the transgressors worried because of what they had
done; and it will come back at them. As for those who believed and do
good works, they will be in gardens of bliss. They will have what they
wish from their Lord. This is the great blessing.

(42:23) Such is the good news from God to His servants who believe and
do good works. Say: "I do not ask you for any wage, except that you
show compassion to your relatives." And whoever earns a good deed, We
shall increase it for him in goodness. Surely, God is Forgiving,
Thankful.

(42:24) Or do they say: "He has fabricated lies about God!" Had God
willed, He could have sealed your heart. And God erases the falsehood
and affirms the truth with His words. He is fully aware of what is in
the chests.

(42:25) And He is the One who accepts the repentance from His
servants, and He forgives the sins. He is fully aware of what you do.

(42:26) And those that believe and do good works respond to Him, and
He increases for them His blessings. As for the rejecters, they have
incurred a severe retribution.

(42:27) And if God were to increase the provision for His servants,
they would transgress on the earth; but He sends down what He wills in
a measure. He is Expert and Seer of His servants.

(42:28) And He is the One who sends down the rain after they had
despaired, and spreads His mercy. He is the Supporter, the
Praiseworthy.

(42:29) And from among His signs is the creation of the heavens and
the earth, and the creatures He spreads in them. And He is able to
gather them, if He wills.

(42:30) And any misfortune that happens to you is a consequence of
what your hands have earned. And He overlooks much.

(42:31) And you can never escape, and you have none besides God as an
ally or helper.

(42:32) And from His signs are the vessels that sail the sea like
flags.

(42:33) If He willed, He could still the winds, leaving them
motionless on top of it. In that are signs for every one who is
patient, thankful.

(42:34) Or He may drown them, for what they have earned. And He
overlooks much.

(42:35) And that those who dispute in Our signs may know that they
have no place to hide.

(42:36) So whatever you are given is simply an enjoyment of the
worldly life, and what is with God is far better and more lasting for
those who believe and put their trust in their Lord.

(42:37) And those who avoid major sins and immorality, and when they
are angered, they forgive.

(42:38) And those who have responded to their Lord, and they hold the
contact prayer, and their affairs are conducted by mutual consultation
among themselves, and from Our provisions to them they give.

(42:39) And those who, when injustice befalls them, they seek justice.

(42:40) The recompense for a crime shall be its equivalence, but
whoever forgives and makes right, then his reward is upon God. He does
not like the wrongdoers.

(42:41) And for any who demand action after being wronged, those are
not committing any error.

(42:42) The error is upon those who oppress the people, and they
aggress in the land without cause. For these will be a painful
retribution.

(42:43) And for he who is patient and forgives, then that is an
indication of strength.

(42:44) And whoever God sends astray will not have any ally after
Him. And you will see the transgressors, when they see the
retribution, saying: "Is there any way we can go back?"

(42:45) And you will see them being displayed to it, in fearful
humiliation, and looking, while trying to avoid looking. And those who
believed will say: "The losers are those who lost their souls and
their families on the Day of Resurrection. The transgressors will be
in a lasting retribution."

(42:46) And they had no allies to help them against God. And whoever
Godmisguides will never find the way.

(42:47) Respond to your Lord before a Day comes from God which cannot
be averted. You will have no refuge for you on that Day, nor an
advocate.

(42:48) But if they turn away, then We did not send you as their
guardian. You are only required to deliver. And when We let man taste
a mercy from Us, he becomes happy with it; and when adversity afflicts
them for what their hands have delivered, then man becomes rejecting!

(42:49) To God is the sovereignty of the heavens and the earth. He
creates whatever He wills. He bestows daughters to whoever He wills,
and bestows sons to whoever He wills.

(42:50) Or, He may bestow them with both sons and daughters, and He
makes whom He wills barren. He is Knowledgeable, Capable.

(42:51) And it is not for any human being that God would speak to him,
except through inspiration, or from behind a barrier, or by sending a
messenger to inspire whom He wills with His permission. He is Most
High, Wise.

(42:52) And thus, We inspired to you a revelation of Our command. You
did not know what was the Book, nor what was faith. Yet, We made this
a light to guide whoever We wish from among Our servants. Surely, you
guide to a straight path.

(42:53) The path of God, to whom belongs what is in the heavens and
the earth. Ultimately, to God all matters return.














