(44:1) HM.

(44:2) And the clarifying Book.

(44:3) We have sent it down in a blessed night. Surely, We were to
warn.

(44:4) In it, is a decree for every matter of wisdom.

(44:5) A decree from Us. Surely, We were to send messengers.

(44:6) A mercy from your Lord. He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(44:7) The Lord of the heavens and the earth, and everything between
them. If you were certain!

(44:8) There is no god except He. He gives life and causes death; your
Lord and the Lord of your ancestors.

(44:9) No; they are in doubt, playing.

(44:10) Therefore, watch for the day when the heaven will bring a
visible smoke.

(44:11) It will envelop the people: "This is a painful retribution!"

(44:12) "Our Lord, remove the retribution from us; we are believers."

(44:13) How is it that now they remember, while a clarifying messenger
had come to them?

(44:14) But then, they turned away from him and said: "Clearly
educated, but crazy!"

(44:15) We will remove the retribution in a while; you will then
return back.

(44:16) On the Day We strike the great strike, We will avenge.

(44:17) And We had tested before them the people of Pharaoh, and an
honorable messenger came to them.

(44:18) "Restore to me the servants of God. I am a trustworthy
messenger to you."

(44:19) "And, do not transgress against God. I come to you with clear
authority."

(44:20) "And I seek refuge with my Lord and your Lord, should you
stone me."

(44:21) "And if you do not believe in me, then have no dealing with
me."

(44:22) Subsequently, he called on his Lord: "These are a criminal
people."

(44:23) You shall travel with My servants during the night; you will
be pursued.

(44:24) And cross the sea quickly; their troops will be drowned.

(44:25) How many gardens and springs did they leave behind?

(44:26) And crops and an honorable station?

(44:27) And blessings that they enjoyed?

(44:28) Thus it was; and We caused another people to inherit it.

(44:29) Neither the heaven, nor the earth wept over them, and they
were not respited.

(44:30) And We saved the Children of Israel from the humiliating
agony.

(44:31) From Pharaoh; he was a transgressing tyrant.

(44:32) And We have chosen them, out of knowledge, over the worlds.

(44:33) And We granted them signs, which constituted a great test.

(44:34) These people now are saying:

(44:35) "There is nothing except our first death; and we will never be
resurrected!"

(44:36) "So bring back our forefathers, if you are truthful!"

(44:37) Are they better or the people of Tubba` and those before them?
We destroyed them, they were criminals.

(44:38) And We have not created the heavens and the earth, and
everything between them, for mere play.

(44:39) We did not create them except with the truth, but most of them
do not know.

(44:40) Surely, the Day of Separation is the appointment for them all.

(44:41) That is the Day when no friend can help his friend in any way;
nor will they be helped.

(44:42) Except him on whom God has mercy. He is the Noble, the
Merciful.

(44:43) Surely, the tree of Bitterness,

(44:44) Will be the food for the sinful.

(44:45) Like hot oil, it will boil in the bellies.

(44:46) Like the boiling of liquid.

(44:47) "Take him and throw him into the midst of Hell."

(44:48) "Then pour upon his head the retribution of boiling liquid."

(44:49) "Taste this; surely you are the noble, the generous!"

(44:50) Surely, this is what you used to doubt!

(44:51) The righteous will be in a station of security.

(44:52) Among gardens and springs.

(44:53) Wearing silk and satin; facing each other.

(44:54) So it is, and We married them to wonderful companions.

(44:55) They enjoy in it all kinds of fruits, in perfect peace.

(44:56) They do not taste death therein except for the first death,
and He has spared them the retribution of Hell.

(44:57) As a blessing from your Lord. Such is the great triumph.

(44:58) We have thus made it easy in your language, perhaps they may
take heed.

(44:59) Therefore, watch; for they too will be watching.














