(46:1) HM.

(46:2) The revelation of the Book from God, the Noble, the Wise.

(46:3) We did not create the heavens and the earth, and everything
between them except with the truth, and for an appointed time. And
those who disbelieve turn away from what they are being warned with.

(46:4) Say: "Do you see those that you call on besides God? Show me
what they have created on the earth, or do they have a share in the
heavens? Bring me a book before this, or any trace of knowledge, if
you are truthful."

(46:5) And who is more astray than he who calls on others besides God
that do not respond to him even until the Day of Resurrection? And
they are totally unaware of the calls to them!

(46:6) And at the time when the people are gathered, they will be
enemies for them, and they will reject their worship.

(46:7) And when Our clear revelations are recited to them, those who
rejected said of the truth that came to them: "This is evidently
magic!"

(46:8) Or do they say: "He fabricated this!" Say: "If I fabricated
this, then you cannot protect me at all from God. He is fully aware of
what you say. He suffices as a witness between me and you. He is the
Forgiver, the Merciful."

(46:9) Say: "I am no different from the other messengers, nor do I
know what will happen to me or to you. I only follow what is inspired
to me. I am no more than a clear warner"

(46:10) Say: "Do you see that if it were from God, and you rejected
it, and a witness from the Children of Israel bore witness to its
similarity, and he has believed, while you have turned arrogant?
Surely, God does not guide the wicked people."

(46:11) And those who had rejected said regarding those who had
believed: "If it were any good, they would not have beaten us to it."
And when they are not able to be guided by it, they will say: "This is
an old fabrication!"

(46:12) And before it was the Book of Moses, a beacon and a mercy. And
this is an authenticating Book, in an Arabic tongue, so that you may
warn those who have transgressed, and to give good news to the
righteous.

(46:13) Those who said: "Our Lord is God," then they lead a righteous
life, there is no fear for them, nor will they grieve.

(46:14) These are the dwellers of the Paradise, abiding therein, a
reward for what they used to do.

(46:15) And We enjoined man to do good to his parents. His mother bore
him with hardship, gave birth to him in hardship, and his bearing and
weaning lasts thirty months. So that, when he has reached his
independence, and he has reached forty years, he says: "My Lord,
direct me to appreciate the blessings You have bestowed upon me and
upon my parents, and to do good work that pleases You. And let my
progeny be righteous. I have repented to You; I am of those who have
submitted."

(46:16) It is from these that We accept the best of their deeds, and
We shall overlook their sins, among the dwellers of the Paradise. This
is the promise of truth that they had been promised.

(46:17) And the one who says to his parents: "Enough of you! Are you
promising me that I will be resurrected, when the generations who died
before me never came back?" While they both will implore God: "Woe to
you; believe! For the promise of God is the truth." He would say:
"This is nothing except fictional tales of old!"

(46:18) These are the ones against whom the retribution has been
deserved in nations who had come before them of mankind and Jinn; they
are the losers.

(46:19) And to each will be degrees according to what they did, and He
will recompense them and they will not be wronged.

(46:20) And on the Day when those who disbelieved will be displayed to
the Fire: "You have wasted the good things given to you during your
worldly life, and you took pleasure in it. Consequently, today you
will be recompensed with a shameful retribution for your arrogance in
the land without any right, and for what wickedness you were in."

(46:21) And recall the brethren of `Aad, when he warned his people of
the sandstorm; no different to the warners sent before him and after
him: "You shall not serve except God. For I fear for you the
retribution of a great day!"

(46:22) They said: "Have you come to us to divert us away from our
gods? Then bring us what you are promising us, if you are truthful!"

(46:23) He said: "The knowledge is only with God; and I convey to you
what I was sent with. However, I see that you are a people who are
ignorant."

(46:24) Then when they saw the dense cloud heading towards their
valleys, they said: "This is a dense cloud that will bring to us much
needed rain!" No, this is what you had asked to be hastened; a violent
wind wherein there is a painful retribution.

(46:25) It destroys everything by the command of its Lord. Thus they
became such that nothing could be seen except their dwellings. We thus
requite the criminal people.

(46:26) And We had established them in the same way as We established
you, and provided them with hearing, and eyesight, and hearts. But
their hearing, eyesight, and hearts did not help them at all. This is
because they used to disregard the revelations of God, and they will
be surrounded by that which they used to mock.

(46:27) And We destroyed the towns around you and We had dispatched
the signs, perhaps they would repent.

(46:28) They were to be supported by those who had established
offerings to gods instead of God. Alas, they abandoned them. Such was
their lie, and what they fabricated.

(46:29) And We directed to you a company of Jinn, in order to let them
listen to the Qur'an. So when they arrived there, they said: "Pay
attention." Then, when it was finished, they returned to their people,
to warn them.

(46:30) They said: "O our people, we have heard a Book that was sent
down after Moses, authenticating what is between his hands. It guides
to the truth; and to a straight path."

(46:31) "O our people, respond to the caller to God, and believe in
Him. He will then forgive your sins, and spare you a painful
retribution."

(46:32) And whoever does not respond to the caller to God will not
escape in the land, and he will not have besides Him any allies. Such
have gone far astray.

(46:33) Did they not see that God, who has created the heavens and the
earth and was not tired by their creation, is able to revive the dead?
Yes indeed; He is able to do all things.

(46:34) And the Day those who rejected are displayed to the Fire: "Is
this not the truth?" They will say: "Yes indeed, by our Lord." He will
say, "Then taste the retribution for what you had rejected."

(46:35) Therefore, be patient like the messengers of strong-will did
before you and do not be in haste regarding them. On the Day they will
see what they have been promised, it will be as if they had not
remained except for one hour of a single day. A proclamation: "Are any
destroyed except for the wicked people?"














