(48:1) We have given you a clear conquest.

(48:2) So that God may forgive your present sins, and those past, and
so that He may complete His blessings upon you, and guide you on a
straight path.

(48:3) And God will grant you a conquest which is mighty.

(48:4) He is the One who sends down tranquility into the hearts of the
believers, so that they may increase in faith along with their present
faith. And to God belong the soldiers of the heavens and the earth,
and God is Knowledgeable, Wise.

(48:5) That He may admit the believing males and believing females
into gardens with rivers flowing beneath them, abiding therein, and He
will forgive their sins for them. And with God this is a great
triumph.

(48:6) And He will punish the hypocrite males and the hypocrite
females, and the polytheist males and the polytheist females; they
think evil thoughts about God. Their evil will come back to them, and
God was angry with them, and He has cursed them and prepared for them
Hell. What a miserable destiny!

(48:7) And to God belong the soldiers of the heavens and the
earth. And God is Noble, Wise.

(48:8) We have sent you as a witness, a bearer of good news, and a
warner.

(48:9) That you may believe in God and His messenger, and that you may
support Him, honor Him, and glorify Him, morning and evening.

(48:10) Those who pledge allegiance to you, are in-fact pledging
allegiance to God; the hand of God is above their hands. Those of them
who violate such a pledge, are violating it only for themselves. And
whoever fulfills what he has pledged to God, then He will grant him a
great reï¿½ward.

(48:11) The Nomads who lagged behind will say to you: "We were
preoccupied with our money and our family, so ask forgiveness for us."
They say with their tongues what is not in their hearts. Say: "Who
then would possess any power for you against God if He wanted harm to
afflict you or if He wanted benefit for you?" No, God is fully Aware
of everything you do.

(48:12) Alas, you thought that the messenger and the believers would
not return to their families, and this was deemed pleasant in your
hearts, and you thought the worst thoughts; you were a wicked people!

(48:13) Anyone who does not believe in God and His messenger, then We
have prepared for the rejecters a Fire.

(48:14) And to God is the sovereignty of the heavens and the earth. He
forgives whoever He wills, and punishes whoever He wills. God is
Forgiver, Merciful.

(48:15) Those who lagged behind will say, when you venture out to
collect the spoils: "Let us follow you!" They want to change the words
of God. Say: "You will not follow us; this is what God has decreed
beforehand." They will then say: "No, you are envious of us." Alas,
they rarely understood anything.

(48:16) Say to those Nomads who lagged behind: "You will be called on
to fight a people who are very powerful in warfare, unless they
surrender. Then if you obey, God will grant you a good reward, but if
you turn away as you turned away before, He will punish you with a
painful retribution."

(48:17) There is no burden on the blind, nor is there any burden on
the cripple, nor is there any burden on the sick. And whoever obeys
God and His messenger, He will admit them into gardens with rivers
flowing beneath them; and whoever turns away, He will punish him with
a painful retribution.

(48:18) God is pleased with the believers who pledged allegiance to
you under the tree. He knew what was in their hearts, so He sent down
tranquility upon them, and rewarded them with a victory that is near.

(48:19) And abundant spoils that they will take. God is Noble, Wise.

(48:20) God has promised you abundant spoils that you will take. Thus
He has hastened this for you, and He has withheld the hands of the
people against you; that it may be a sign for the believers, and that
He may guide you to a straight path.

(48:21) And the other group which you could not vanquish, God took
care of them. And God was capable of all things.

(48:22) And if the rejecters had fought you, they would have turned
and ran, then they would have found neither an ally nor a victor.

(48:23) Such is the way of God with those who have passed away before,
and you will not find any change in the way of God.

(48:24) And He is the One who withheld their hands against you, and
your hands against them in the interior of Mecca, after He had made
you victorious over them. God is Seer of what you do.

(48:25) They are the ones who rejected and barred you from the
Restricted Temple, and barred your donations from reaching their
destination. And there had been believing men and believing women whom
you did not know, and you may have hurt them, and on whose account you
would have incurred a sin unknowingly. God will admit into His mercy
whoever He wills. Had they become separated, We would then have
punished those from them who rejected with a painful retribution.

(48:26) Those who rejected had put in their hearts the rage of the
days of ignorance. Then, God sent down tranquility upon His messenger
and the believers, and directed them to uphold the word of
righteousness, and they were well entitled to it and worthy of it. And
God is fully aware of all things.

(48:27) God has affirmed, that the vision of His messenger will come
true: "You will enter the Restricted Temple, God willing, secure, with
your heads shaven, and shortened - no longer in fear." Thus, He knew
what you did not know, and He has appointed before this a conquest
near at hand.

(48:28) He is the One who sent His messenger with the guidance and the
system of truth, so that it would expose all other systems. And God is
enough as a witness.

(48:29) Mohammed is the messenger of God, and those who are with him
are severe against the rejecters, but merciful between themselves. You
see them kneeling and prostrating, they seek the blessings and
approval of God. Their distinction is in their faces, as a result of
prostrating. Such is their example in the Torah. And their example in
the Gospel is like a plant which shoots out and becomes strong and
thick and it stands straight on its trunk, pleasing to the
farmers. That He may enrage the rejecters with them. God promises
those among them who believe and do good works a forgiveness and a
great reward.














