(50:1) Q, and the Qur'an of glory.

(50:2) Are they surprised that a warner has come to them from amongst
them, so the rejecters said: "This is something strange!"

(50:3) "Can it be that when we are dead and we become dust, that we
come back later?"

(50:4) We know which of them has become consumed with the earth; and
We have with Us a record which keeps track.

(50:5) But they denied the truth when it came to them, so they are in
a confused state.

(50:6) Did they not look to the heaven above them, how We built it,
and adorned it, and how it has no openings?

(50:7) And the land We extended it, and placed in it stabilizers, and
We gave growth in it to every kind of healthy pair.

(50:8) Something to see and a reminder for every pious servant.

(50:9) And We sent down from the sky blessed water, and We gave growth
with it to gardens and grain that is harvested.

(50:10) And the palm trees, emerging with clustering fruit.

(50:11) A provision for the servants, and We gave life with it to the
land which was dead. Such is the resurrection.

(50:12) Before their denial was that of the people of Noah, and the
dwellers of Al-Raas, and Thamud.

(50:13) And 'Aad, and Pharaoh, and the brethren of Lot.

(50:14) And the people of the Sycamore, and the people of Tubba`. All
of them disbelieved the messengers, so the promise came to pass.

(50:15) Did We have any difficulty in making the first creation? No,
they are in confusion about the next creation.

(50:16) And We have created man and We know what his soul whispers to
him, and We are closer to him than his jugular vein.

(50:17) When the two receivers meet on the right and on the left.

(50:18) He does not utter a word except a watcher is constantly with
him.

(50:19) And the moment of death came with truth: "This is what you
have been trying to avoid!"

(50:20) And the horn is blown on the promised Day.

(50:21) And every soul is brought, being driven, and with a witness.

(50:22) "You were heedless of this, so now We have removed your veil,
and your sight today is iron!"

(50:23) And his associate said: "Here is one who is a transgressor."

(50:24) "Cast in Hell every stubborn rejecter."

(50:25) "Denier of good, transgressor, doubter."

(50:26) "The one who has set up with God another god; so cast him into
the severe retribution."

(50:27) His associate said: "Our Lord, I did not corrupt him, but he
was already far astray."

(50:28) He said: "Do not argue with each other before Me, I have
already presented you with My promise."

(50:29) "The sentence will not be changed with Me, and I do not wrong
the servants."

(50:30) The Day We say to Hell: "Are you full?" And it says: "Is there
not more?"

(50:31) And the Paradise is brought near to the righteous, not far
off.

(50:32) This is what you have been promised, for every obedient,
steadfast.

(50:33) Who is concerned towards the Almighty while unseen, and came
with a repenting heart

(50:34) Enter it in peace. This is the Day of eternal life.

(50:35) In it they will have what they wish, and We have even more.

(50:36) And how many a generation before them have We destroyed? They
were stronger in power, and they had dominated the land. Did they find
any refuge?

(50:37) In that is a reminder for whoever has a heart, or cares to
listen while he is heedful.

(50:38) And We have created the heavens and the earth and what is
between them in six days, and no fatigue touched Us.

(50:39) So be patient to what they are saying, and glorify the grace
of your Lord before the rising of the sun and before the setting.

(50:40) And from the night glorify Him, and after prostrating.

(50:41) And listen to the Day when the caller will call from a near
place.

(50:42) The Day they hear the scream with the truth. That is the Day
of coming out.

(50:43) We are the Ones who give life and bring death, and to Us is
the destiny.

(50:44) The Day when the earth will rapidly crumble away from them;
that will be a gathering which is easy for Us.

(50:45) We are fully aware of what they say; and you are not a tyrant
over them. So remind with the Qur'an those who fear My promise.














