(51:1) By the winds that blow.

(51:2) Carrying rain.

(51:3) Traveling easily.

(51:4) Distributing as commanded.

(51:5) What you are being promised is true.

(51:6) And the Judgment will come to pass.

(51:7) By the heaven that is woven.

(51:8) You are saying what is different.

(51:9) To mislead those who are misled.

(51:10) Woe to the deceitful.

(51:11) Who are in mischief, unaware.

(51:12) They ask: "When is the Day of Recompense?"

(51:13) The Day they ordeal upon the Fire.

(51:14) "Taste this ordeal of yours; this is what you asked to be
hastened."

(51:15) The righteous are in gardens and springs.

(51:16) Receiving what their Lord has bestowed to them, for they were
before that pious.

(51:17) They used to rarely sleep the whole night.

(51:18) And before dawn, they would seek forgiveness.

(51:19) An in their money was a portion for the beggar and the needy.

(51:20) And on the earth are signs for those who comprehend.

(51:21) And within yourselves; do you not see?

(51:22) And in the heaven is your provision, and what you are
promised.

(51:23) By the Lord of the heaven and the earth, this is truth just as
the fact that you speak.

(51:24) Has the narrative of the noble guests of Abraham come to you?

(51:25) When they entered upon him, they said: "Peace." He said:
"Peace to a people unknown!"

(51:26) Then he went to his family and brought a fat calf.

(51:27) He offered it to them, he said: "Do you not eat?"

(51:28) He then became fearful of them. They said: "Do not fear," and
they gave him good news of a knowledgeable son.

(51:29) His wife then approached in amazement. She slapped upon her
face, and said: "A barren old woman!"

(51:30) They said: "It was such that your Lord has said. He is the
Wise, the Knowledgeable."

(51:31) He said: "What is your undertaking, O messengers?"

(51:32) They said: "We have been sent to a criminal people."

(51:33) "To send down upon them stones of clay."

(51:34) "Prepared by your Lord for the transgressors."

(51:35) We then vacated from it all the believers.

(51:36) But We only found in it one house of those who had submitted.

(51:37) And We left in it a sign for those who fear the painful
retribution.

(51:38) And also Moses, for We sent him to Pharaoh with a clear
authority.

(51:39) But he and his camp turned away, and said: "A magician, or
crazy."

(51:40) So We took him and his troops; We cast them into the sea, and
he was to blame.

(51:41) And also 'Aad, for We sent upon them the barren wind.

(51:42) Anything that it came upon was utterly destroyed.

(51:43) And also Thamud, for it was said to them: "Enjoy for a while."

(51:44) But they rebelled against the command of their Lord. So the
lightning struck them while they were looking.

(51:45) They were unable to rise up, nor could they win.

(51:46) And the people of Noah before; they were a wicked people.

(51:47) And the heaven We constructed with resources, and We are
expanding it.

(51:48) And the earth We furnished; so glory to the Makers.

(51:49) And of everything We created a pair, perhaps you may remember.

(51:50) So turn towards God. I am to you from Him a clear warner.

(51:51) And do not make any other god with God. I am to you from Him a
clear warner.

(51:52) Likewise, when a messenger went to those before them, they
said: "A magician, or crazy."

(51:53) Have they passed down this saying to each other? Indeed, they
are a wicked people.

(51:54) So turn away from them; you will not be blamed.

(51:55) And remind, for the reminder benefits the believers.

(51:56) I did not create the Jinn and mankind except to serve Me.

(51:57) I need no provisions from them, nor do I need them to give
food.

(51:58) God is the Provider, the One with Power, the Supreme.

(51:59) The transgressors will have the same fate as their previous
friends; so let them not be hasty.

(51:60) So woe to those who rejected from the Day that is waiting for
them.














