(52:1) By the mount.

(52:2) And a recorded Book.

(52:3) In parchment published.

(52:4) And the constructed Sanctuary.

(52:5) And the ceiling which is raised.

(52:6) And the sea that is overflowing.

(52:7) The retribution of your Lord is unavoidable.

(52:8) Nothing can stop it.

(52:9) The Day when the heaven will violently thunder.

(52:10) And the mountains will be wiped out.

(52:11) Woe on that Day to the deniers.

(52:12) Who are in their recklessness, playing.

(52:13) The Day they will be called into Hell, forcibly:

(52:14) "This is the Fire which you used to deny!"

(52:15) "Is this magic, or do you not see?"

(52:16) "Enter it, whether you are patient or impatient, it will be
the same for you. You are only being requited for what you used to
do."

(52:17) The righteous are in gardens and bliss.

(52:18) Delighted by what their Lord has granted them; and their Lord
has spared them the retribution of Hell.

(52:19) Eat and drink happily because of what you used to do.

(52:20) They recline on arranged beds, and We married them to
wonderful companions.

(52:21) And those who believed, and their progeny also followed them
in belief; We will have their progeny join them. We never fail to
reward them for any work. Every person is paid for what he did.

(52:22) We will supply them with fruit and meat such as they desire.

(52:23) They will enjoy drinks therein, from which there is no
nonsense, nor blame.

(52:24) And around them will be children like protected pearls.

(52:25) And they came to one another asking.

(52:26) They said: "We used to be compassionate among our people."

(52:27) "God thus blessed us, and has spared us the agony of the
fierce hot winds."

(52:28) "We used to implore Him before; He is the Kind, the Merciful."

(52:29) Therefore, you shall remind. For by the grace of your Lord,
you are neither a soothsayer, nor crazy.

(52:30) Or do they say: "He is a poet; so let us just wait until a
disaster befalls him."

(52:31) Say: "Continue waiting; for I will wait along with you."

(52:32) Or do their dreams dictate this to them, or are they a
transgressing people?

(52:33) Or do they say: "He made it all up"? No, they simply do not
believe.

(52:34) Let them produce a narrative like this, if they are truthful.

(52:35) Or were they created from nothing? Or was it them who have
created?

(52:36) Or did they create the heavens and the earth? No, they do not
comprehend.

(52:37) Or do they possess the treasures of your Lord? Are they in
control?

(52:38) Or do they have a stairway that enables them to listen? Then
let their listeners show their proof.

(52:39) Or to Him belong the daughters, and to you belong the sons?

(52:40) Or do you ask them for a wage, so they are burdened by the
fine?

(52:41) Or do they know the future, thus they have it recorded?

(52:42) Or do they want to make a plan? Indeed, it is the rejecters
who are being planned against.

(52:43) Or do they have another god besides God? God be glorified
above what they set up.

(52:44) And if they see a portion from the heaven falling, they will
say: "Piled clouds!"

(52:45) So disregard them until they meet their Day in which they are
stricken.

(52:46) The Day when their scheming will not protect them in the
least, nor will they be helped.

(52:47) And for those who transgressed will be a retribution beyond
this, but most of them do not know.

(52:48) You shall be patient for the judgment of your Lord, for you
are in Our sights; and glorify the praise of your Lord when you rise.

(52:49) Also from the night glorify Him, and at the fading of the
stars.














