(54:1) The Hour draws near, and the moon is breached.

(54:2) And if they see a sign, they turn away and say: "Ongoing
magic!"

(54:3) And they disbelieved, and followed their desires, and every old
tradition.

(54:4) While the news had come to them in which there was sufficient
warning.

(54:5) A perfect wisdom; but the warnings are of no benefit.

(54:6) So turn away from them; the Day will come when the caller will
announce a terrible disaster.

(54:7) With their eyes humiliated, they come out of the graves like
scattered locusts.

(54:8) Hastening towards the caller, the rejecters will say: "This is
a difficult Day."

(54:9) The people of Noah disbelieved before them. They disbelieved
Our servant and said: "He is crazy!" And he was oppressed.

(54:10) So he called on his Lord: "I am beaten, so grant me victory."

(54:11) So We opened the gates of the sky with pouring water.

(54:12) And We caused springs to gush out of the earth. Thus the
waters met to a command which had been measured.

(54:13) We carried him on a craft made of slabs and mortar.

(54:14) It ran under Our watchful eyes; a reward for one who was
rejected.

(54:15) And We have left it as a sign. Are there any who want to
learn?

(54:16) So how was My retribution after the warnings!

(54:17) And We made the Qur'an easy to remember. Are there any who
want to learn?

(54:18) 'Aad disbelieved. So how was My retribution after the
warnings!

(54:19) We sent upon them a violent wind, on a day of continuous
misery.

(54:20) It uprooted the people as if they were decayed palm tree
trunks.

(54:21) So how was My retribution after the warnings!

(54:22) And We made the Qur'an easy to remember. Are there any who
will learn?

(54:23) Thamud rejected the warnings.

(54:24) They said: "Shall we follow one of us; a human being? We will
then go astray, and be in Hell."

(54:25) "Has the Reminder come down to him, of all people amongst us?
He is an evil liar."

(54:26) They will find out tomorrow who the evil liar is.

(54:27) We are sending the camel as a test for them. So watch them and
be patient.

(54:28) And inform them that the water shall be divided between them;
each shall be allowed to drink in turn.

(54:29) But they called on their friend, and he was paid to slaughter.

(54:30) So how was My retribution after the warnings!

(54:31) We sent upon them one scream, whereupon they became like
harvested hay.

(54:32) And We made the Qur'an easy to remember. Are there any who
will learn?

(54:33) The people of Lot rejected the warners.

(54:34) We sent upon them projectiles. Except for the family of Lot,
We saved them at dawn.

(54:35) A blessing from Us; it is thus that We reward the thankful.

(54:36) And he warned them about Our punishment, but they ridiculed
the warnings.

(54:37) And they sought to remove him from his guests; so We diverted
their eyes. "Taste My retribution; you have been warned."

(54:38) And in the early morning, a devastating retribution struck
them.

(54:39) "Taste My retribution; you have been warned."

(54:40) And We made the Qur'an easy to remember. Are there any who
will learn?

(54:41) And the warnings had come to the people of Pharaoh.

(54:42) They rejected all Our signs. So We took them, the taking of
the Noble, the Able.

(54:43) Are your rejecters better than those? Or have you been
absolved by the scriptures?

(54:44) Or do they say: "We are a large group and we will win."

(54:45) The large group will be defeated; they will turn around and
flee.

(54:46) The Hour is their appointed time, and the Hour is far worse
and more painful.

(54:47) The criminals are in error and will burn.

(54:48) The Day when they will be dragged upon their faces into the
Fire: "Taste the agony of the scorching heat!"

(54:49) Everything We have created in measure.

(54:50) And Our commands are done at once with the blink of an eye.

(54:51) And We have destroyed your counterparts. Do any of you wish to
learn?

(54:52) And everything they had done, is in the scriptures.

(54:53) And everything, small or large, is written down.

(54:54) The righteous will be in gardens and rivers.

(54:55) In a position of honor, at an Omnipotent King.














