(61:1) Glorifying God is everything in the heavens and everything on
the earth. And He is the Noble, the Wise.

(61:2) O you who believe, why do you say what you do not do?

(61:3) It is most despicable with God that you would say what you do
not do.

(61:4) God loves those who fight in His cause as one column; they are
like bricks in a wall.

(61:5) And when Moses said to his people: "O my people, why do you
harm me, while you know that I am a messenger of God to you?" But when
they deviated, God diverted their hearts. And God does not guide the
wicked people.

(61:6) And when Jesus, son of Mary, said: "O children of Israel, I am
a messenger of God to you, authenticating what is between my hands of
the Torah and bringing good news of a messenger to come after me whose
name will be 'most acclaimed.'" But when he showed them the clear
proofs, they said: "This is clearly magic"

(61:7) And who is more evil than he who invents lies about God, while
he is being invited to submission? And God does not guide the wicked
people.

(61:8) They want to extinguish the light of God with their mouths. But
God will continue with His light, even if the rejecters hate it.

(61:9) He is the One who sent His messenger with the guidance and the
system of truth, so that it will expose all other systems, even if the
polytheists hate it.

(61:10) "O you who believe, shall I lead you to a trade that will save
you from a painful retribution?"

(61:11) "That you believe in God and His messenger and strive in the
cause of God with your money and your lives. This is best for you, if
only you knew."

(61:12) He will then forgive your sins, and admit you into estates
with rivers flowing beneath them, and beautiful mansions in gardens of
delight. This is the great triumph.

(61:13) And also you will receive what you love: a triumph from God
and a victory that is close at hand. And give good news to the
believers.

(61:14) O you who believe, be supporters of God, as Jesus, son of
Mary, said to his disciples: "Who are my supporters towards God?" The
disciples said: "We are supporters of God." Thus, a group from the
Children of Israel believed, and another group rejected. So We
supported those who believed against their enemy, and they were
successful.














