(62:1) Glorifying God is everything in the heavens and everything on
the earth; the King, the Holy, the Noble, the Wise.

(62:2) He is the One who sent to the Gentiles a messenger from among
themselves, to recite to them His revelations, and to purify them, and
teach them the Book and the wisdom. And before this, they were clearly
astray.

(62:3) And to other generations subsequent to them. He is the Noble,
the Wise.

(62:4) Such is the grace of God, which He bestows upon whoever He
wills. God is Possessor of Infinite Grace.

(62:5) The example of those who were given the Torah, but then failed
to uphold it, is like the donkey that is carrying a cargo of
books. Miserable indeed is the example of the people who denied the
revelations of God. And God does not guide the wicked people.

(62:6) Say: "O you who are Jewish, if you claim that you are the
chosen of God, to the exclusion of all other people, then you should
long for death if you are truthful!"

(62:7) But they will never long for it, because of what their hands
have delivered. God is fully aware of the wicked.

(62:8) Say: "The death that you are fleeing from, it will come to find
you. Then you will be returned to the Knower of all secrets and
declarations, then He will inform you of everything you had done."

(62:9) O you who believe, if the contact prayer is called to at the
gathering day, then you shall hasten towards the remembrance of God,
and cease all selling. This is better for you, if only you knew.

(62:10) Then, once the contact prayer is complete, you shall disperse
through the land and seek the provisions of God, and remember God
frequently that you may succeed.

(62:11) And if they come across any trade, or some entertainment, they
rush to it and leave you standing! Say: "What God possesses is far
better than entertainment or trade. And God is the best Provider."














