(65:1) O prophet, if any of you have divorced the women, then they
should be divorced while ensuring that their required interim is
fulfilled, and keep count of the interim. You shall reverence God your
Lord, and do not evict them from their homes, nor should they leave,
unless they commit an evident immorality. And these are the boundaries
of God. And anyone who transgresses the boundaries of God has wronged
his soul. You never know; perhaps God will make something come out of
this.

(65:2) Then, once the interim is fulfilled, either you remain together
equitably, or part ways equitably and have it witnessed by two just
people from among you; and give the testimony for God. This is to
enlighten those who believe in God and the Last Day. And whoever
reverences God, He will create a solution for him.

(65:3) And He will provide for him whence he never expected. Anyone
who puts his trust in God, then He suffices him. The commands of God
will be done. God has decreed for everything its fate.

(65:4) As for those who have reached menopause from your women, if you
have any doubts, their interim shall be three months - as well as for
those who did not menstruate. And those who are already pregnant,
their interim is until they give birth. And anyone who reverences God,
He makes his matters easy for him.

(65:5) This is the command of God that He sends down to you. And
anyone who is aware of God, He will forgive his sins, and will improve
his reward.

(65:6) You shall let them reside in the dwelling you were in when you
were together, and do not coerce them to make them leave. And if they
are pregnant, you shall spend on them until they give birth. Then, if
they nurse the infant, you shall give them their due payment. And you
shall maintain the amicable relations between you. If you disagree,
then another woman may nurse the child.

(65:7) The rich shall provide support in accordance with his means,
and the poor shall provide according to the means that God bestowed
upon him. God does not burden any soul more than He has given it. God
will provide ease after difficulty.

(65:8) Many a town rebelled against the command of its Lord and His
messengers. Thus, We called them to account severely, and We punished
them a terrible punishment.

(65:9) They tasted the result of their actions, and the consequence of
their actions was a total loss.

(65:10) God has prepared for them a severe retribution. Therefore, you
shall be aware of God, O you who possess intelligence and
believed. God has sent down to you a remembrance.

(65:11) A messenger who recites to you the revelations of God, which
are clear, to lead those who believe and work righteousness out of the
darkness into the light. Anyone who believes in God and does good
works, He will admit him into estates with rivers flowing beneath
them; abiding therein eternally. God has granted for him an excellent
reward.

(65:12) God who has created seven heavens and the same number of
earths; the command is sent down between them; that you may know that
God is capable of all things, and that God has encompassed all things
with His knowledge.














