(66:1) O prophet, why do you make unlawful what God has made lawful
for you, seeking to please your wives? God is Forgiver, Merciful.

(66:2) God has already given the law, regarding the cancellation of
oaths. And God is your Lord, and He is the Knowledgeable, the Wise.

(66:3) And when the prophet confided a narrative to some of his wives,
then one of them spread it, and God revealed it to him, he recognized
part of it and denied part. So when he informed her, she said: "Who
informed you of this?" He said: "I was informed by the Knowledgeable,
the Expert."

(66:4) If the two of you repent to God, then your hearts have
listened. But if you band together against him, then God is his ally,
and so are Gabriel and the righteous believers. Also, the angels are
his helpers.

(66:5) It may be that he would divorce you, then his Lord will
substitute other wives in your place who are better than you;
submitting, believing, dutiful, repentant, worshipping, devout, mature
and youthful.

(66:6) O you who believe, protect yourselves and your families from a
Fire whose fuel is people and stones. Guarding it are stern and
powerful angels who do not disobey God in what He commanded them; and
they carry out what they are commanded to.

(66:7) O you who have rejected, do not apologize today. You are being
requited only for what you did.

(66:8) O you who believe, you shall repent to God a sincere
repentance. It may be that your Lord will forgive your sins and admit
you into estates with rivers flowing beneath them. On that Day, God
will not disappoint the prophet and those who believed with him. Their
light will radiate around them and to their right. They will say: "Our
Lord, keep perfect our light for us, and forgive us; You are able to
do all things."

(66:9) O prophet, strive against the rejecters and the hypocrites and
be stern with them. Their abode is Hell, and a miserable destiny.

(66:10) God puts forth as examples of those who have rejected, the
wife of Noah and the wife of Lot. They were married to two of Our
righteous servants, but they betrayed them and, consequently, they
could not help them at all against God. And it was said: "Enter the
Fire, both of you, with those who will enter it."

(66:11) And God puts forth as an example of those who believed the
wife of Pharaoh. She said: "My Lord, build a home for me near You in
the Paradise, and save me from Pharaoh and his works; and save me from
the transgressing people."

(66:12) And Mary, daughter of Imran, who maintained the chastity of
her private part, so We blew into it from Our Spirit, and she believed
in the words of her Lord and His Books; and she was of those who were
dutiful.














