(67:1) Most exalted is the One in whose hands is all sovereignty, and
He is capable of all things.

(67:2) The One who has created death and life, that He may test you,
which of you will do better works? He is the Noble, the Forgiving.

(67:3) He created seven heavens in layers. You do not see any
imperfection in the creation by the Almighty. Keep looking; do you see
any flaw?

(67:4) Then look again twice; your eyes will come back humiliated and
tired.

(67:5) And We have adorned the lower heaven with lamps, and We made it
with projectiles against the devils; and We prepared for them the
retribution of the blazing Fire.

(67:6) And for those who rejected their Lord will be the retribution
of Hell. What a miserable destiny.

(67:7) When they are cast therein, they hear its furor as it boils.

(67:8) It almost explodes from rage. Whenever a group is thrown
therein, its keepers would ask them: "Did you not receive a warner?"

(67:9) They said: "Yes indeed; a warner did come to us, but we
disbelieved and said: God did not reveal anything, you are being led
astray."

(67:10) And they said: "If we had listened or understood, we would not
be among the dwellers of the blazing Fire!"

(67:11) Thus, they confessed their sins. So away with the dwellers of
the blazing Fire.

(67:12) As for those who are concerned towards their Lord while
unseen, they have attained forgiveness and a great reward.

(67:13) And whether you keep your utterances secret, or declare them,
He is fully aware of what is in the chests.

(67:14) Should He not know what He created? And He is the Sublime, the
Expert.

(67:15) He is the One who made the earth subservient for you. So roam
its paths, and eat from His provisions; and to Him is the final
summoning.

(67:16) Are you secure that the One in the heaven will not cause the
earth to swallow you when it shakes?

(67:17) Or are you secure that the One in the heaven will not send
upon you a violent storm? Then you will know the value of the warning.

(67:18) And those before them have disbelieved; so how terrible was My
requital!

(67:19) Have they not looked to the birds lined-up together above
them, and they contract? It is the Almighty who holds them. He is Seer
of all things.

(67:20) Where is this army of yours to grant you victory without the
Almighty? Indeed, the disbelievers are deceived.

(67:21) Where is this who can give you provisions if He holds back His
provisions? Indeed, they have plunged deep into transgression and
aversion.

(67:22) Is one who walks while his face is slumped better guided, or
one who walks straight on the right path?

(67:23) Say: "He is the One who initiated you, and made for you the
hearing, the eyes, and the hearts. Little do you give thanks."

(67:24) Say: "He is the One who placed you on the earth, and to Him
you will be gathered."

(67:25) And they say: "When will this promise come to pass, if you are
being truthful?"

(67:26) Say: "The knowledge is with God, and I am but a clear warner."

(67:27) So when they see it near, the faces of those who rejected will
turn miserable, and it will be proclaimed: "This is what you had
called for!"

(67:28) Say: "Do you see? If God annihilates me and those with me, or
He bestows mercy upon us, who is there to protect the rejecters from a
painful retribution?"

(67:29) Say: "He is the Almighty; we believe in Him, and we put our
trust in Him. You will come to find out who is clearly astray."

(67:30) Say: "What if your water becomes deep underground, who then
can provide you with pure water?"














