(72:1) Say: "It has been inspired to me that a group of Jinn were
listening." They said: "We have heard a magnificent revelation!"

(72:2) "It guides to what is correct, so we believed in it, and we
will not set up anyone with our Lord."

(72:3) "And Exalted is the Majesty of our Lord, He has not taken a
wife nor a son."

(72:4) "And the foolish one among us used to say lies about God."

(72:5) "And we had thought that neither mankind nor the Jinn would
ever utter a lie against God."

(72:6) "And there were men from among mankind who used to seek help
from the men among the Jinn, but they only helped increase them in
sin."

(72:7) "And they thought as you thought, that God would not send
anyone."

(72:8) "And we touched the heavens, but found it full of powerful
guards and projectiles."

(72:9) "And we used to sit in it in places of listening, but anyone
who sits now finds a projectile seeking him."

(72:10) "And we do not know, is it evil that is intended for those on
the earth, or does their Lord want them to be guided?"

(72:11) "And among us are those who are good doers, and some of us are
opposite to that, we are in many paths."

(72:12) "And we acknowledge that we cannot escape God on the earth,
nor can we escape Him if we run."

(72:13) "And when we heard the guidance, we believed in it. So whoever
believes in his Lord, then he will not fear a decrease in reward, nor
a burdensome punishment."

(72:14) "And among us are those who submitted, and among us are the
compromisers. As for those who have submitted, they have sought what
is correct."

(72:15) And as for the compromisers, they are firewood for Hell.

(72:16) And had they walked on a straight path, We would have provided
them with abundant water.

(72:17) To test them with it. And whoever turns away from the
remembrance of his Lord, He will enter him a severe retribution.

(72:18) And the temples are for God, so do not call on anyone
alongside God.

(72:19) And when the servant of God stood up to call on Him, they
nearly banded to oppose him.

(72:20) Say: "I only call on my Lord, and I do not set up anyone with
Him."

(72:21) Say: "I have no power to harm you nor to show you what is
right."

(72:22) Say: "No one can protect me from God, and I will not find any
refuge except with Him."

(72:23) It is but an announcement from God, and His messages. And
whoever disobeys God and His messenger, then he will have the fire of
Hell to dwell eternally therein.

(72:24) Until they see what they are promised, then they will know who
has the weakest ally and is least in number.

(72:25) Say: "I do not know if what you are promised is near, or if my
Lord will make it distant."

(72:26) Knower of the unseen, He does not reveal His unseen to anyone.

(72:27) Except to whom He has accepted as a messenger, then He reveals
from the past and the future.

(72:28) So that He knows that they have delivered the messages of
their Lord, and He surrounds all that is with them, and He has counted
the number of all things.














