(76:1) Was there not a time in the past when man was nothing to even
be mentioned?

(76:2) We have created man from a mixed seed; We test him, so We made
him hear and see.

(76:3) We have guided him to the path, either to be thankful or to
reject.

(76:4) We have prepared for the rejecters chains and shackles and a
blazing Fire.

(76:5) As for the pious, they will drink from a cup with the scent of
musk.

(76:6) A spring from which the servants of God drink, it gushes forth
abundantly.

(76:7) They fulfill their vows, and they fear a Day whose consequences
are wide-spread.

(76:8) And they give food out of love to the poor and the orphan and
the captive.

(76:9) "We only feed you seeking the face of God; we do not desire
from you any reward or thanks."

(76:10) "We fear from our Lord a Day, which will be horrible and
difficult."

(76:11) So God shielded them from the evil of that Day, and He cast
towards them a look and a smile.

(76:12) And He rewarded them for their patience with a paradise and
silk.

(76:13) They are reclining in it on raised couches, they do not have
in it excessive sun nor bitter cold.

(76:14) And the shade is close upon them, and the fruit is hanging low
within reach.

(76:15) And they are served upon with bowls of silver and glasses of
crystal.

(76:16) Crystal laced with silver, measured accordingly.

(76:17) And they are given to drink in it from a cup which has the
scent of ginger.

(76:18) A spring therein which is called 'Salsabeel.'

(76:19) And they are encircled with eternal children. If you see them
you will think they are pearls which have been scattered about.

(76:20) And if you look, then you will see a blessing and a great
dominion.

(76:21) They will have garments of fine green silk, and necklaces and
bracelets from silver, and their Lord will give them a cleansing
drink.

(76:22) "This is the reward for you, and your struggle is
appreciated."

(76:23) We have sent down to you the Qur'an in stages.

(76:24) So be patient to the judgment of your Lord, and do not obey
from them any sinner or rejecter.

(76:25) And remember the name of your Lord morning and evening.

(76:26) And from the night you shall prostrate to Him and praise Him
throughout.

(76:27) These people like the current life, and they put behind them a
heavy Day.

(76:28) We have created them, and established them, and if We wished,
We could replace their kind completely.

(76:29) This is a reminder, so let whoever wills take a path to his
Lord.

(76:30) And you cannot will unless God wills. God is Knowledgeable,
Wise.

(76:31) He admits whom He wills to His mercy. And as for the wicked,
He has prepared for them a painful retribution.














