(8:1) They ask you regarding the spoils, say: "The spoils are for God
and the messenger." So be aware of God, and be upright in matters
between you; and obey God and His messenger if you are believers.

(8:2) The believers are those whom, when God is mentioned, their
hearts reverence; and when His revelations are recited to them, it
increases their faith; and they put their trust in their Lord.

(8:3) They hold the contact prayer, and from Our provisions to them
they spend.

(8:4) These are the true believers; they will have grades with their
Lord and a forgiveness and a generous provision.

(8:5) As your Lord made you go out from your home with the truth, but
a party from among the believers disliked this.

(8:6) They argue with you about the truth when it has been made clear
to them; as if they were being herded towards death while they are
watching!

(8:7) And God promises you that one of the two parties will be
defeated by you; and you wish that the one least armed be the one. But
God wishes that the truth be manifest with His words, and that He
eliminates the remnant of the rejecters.

(8:8) So that the truth will be manifest, and the falsehood will be
finished; even if the criminals hate it.

(8:9) You called on help from your Lord and He answered you: "I will
provide you with one thousand angels as defenders."

(8:10) And God did not do this except to give you good news, and that
your hearts may be assured by it. And victory is only from God; for
God is Noble, Wise.

(8:11) Sleep overcame you to give you tranquility from Him; and He
sent down to you water from the sky to cleanse you with it and cause
the affliction of the devil to leave you; and so that He may
strengthen your hearts and set firm your feet.

(8:12) Your Lord inspired to the angels: "I am with you so keep firm
those who believe. I will cast terror into the hearts of those who
have rejected; so strike above the necks, and strike from them every
one standing."

(8:13) That is because they have transgressed against God and His
messenger. And whoever transgresses against God and His messenger,
then God is severe in retribution.

(8:14) This is for you to sample, and for the rejecters will be a
retribution of Fire.

(8:15) O you who believe; when you encounter those who have rejected
on the battlefield, do not flee from them.

(8:16) And whoever on that day flees from them; unless it is part of
the battle strategy or if he is retreating back to his group; then he
has drawn the wrath of God upon him, and his abode will be Hell. What
a miserable destiny.

(8:17) It was not you who killed them, but it was God who killed
them. And it was not you who launched when you did, but it was God who
launched. And so that the believers would be tested well by Him. God
is Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(8:18) That, and God weakens the plans of the rejecters.

(8:19) If you sought conquest, then conquest has come to you, but if
you cease, then it is better for you. And if you return again, then We
will also return, and your group will avail you nothing even if it is
many. God is with the believers.

(8:20) O you who believe, obey God and His messenger, and do not turn
away from him while you have heard.

(8:21) And do not be like those who have said: "We hear," but they do
not hear.

(8:22) The worst creatures with God are the deaf and dumb who do not
comprehend.

(8:23) And if God had found any good in them, then He would have made
them listen. And if He had made them listen, they would have turned
away while they are in aversion.

(8:24) O you who believe, answer the call of God and His messenger
when he calls you to what will grant you life. And know that God comes
between a person and his heart, and that to Him you will be gathered.

(8:25) And be aware of a test that will not only afflict those of you
who were wicked; and know that God is severe in retribution.

(8:26) And remember when you were but a few who were weak in the land,
you were fearful that the people might capture you. But He sheltered
you, and He supported you with His victory, and He provided you with
good provisions, so that you may be thankful.

(8:27) O you who believe, do not betray God and the messenger, nor
betray your trust, while you know.

(8:28) And know that your money and your children are a test, and that
God has the greatest reward.

(8:29) O you who believe, if you are aware of God, He will make a
criterion for you, and He will cancel your sins and forgive you. God
is possessor of great grace.

(8:30) And the rejecters plot against you to arrest you, or to kill
you, or to expel you. And they plot, and God plots, and God is the
best of plotters.

(8:31) And if Our revelations are recited to them, they say: "We have
listened, and if we wish, we could have said the same thing. This is
nothing except fictional tales of old!"

(8:32) And they said: "Our god, if this is the truth from You, then
send down upon us a rain of stones from the heaven or bring upon us a
painful retribution."

(8:33) And God will not punish them while you are with them, nor will
God punish them while they continue to seek forgiveness.

(8:34) And why should God not punish them when they are turning others
away from the Restricted Temple, and they were never its protectors!
Its protectors are the righteous; but most of them do not know.

(8:35) And their contact prayer at the Sanctuary was nothing but noise
and aversion. Taste the retribution for what you have rejected.

(8:36) Those who have rejected, they spend their money to turn others
away from the path of God. They will spend it, then it will become an
anguish for them, then they will be defeated. Those who have rejected
will be gathered to Hell.

(8:37) This is so that God will distinguish the bad from the good, and
so that the bad will be gathered together into one heap then He will
cast it all into Hell. These are the losers.

(8:38) Say to the rejecters: "If they cease, then what has passed
before will be forgiven to them, and if they return to it, then the
example of the previous generations has already been given."

(8:39) And fight them all until there is no more oppression, and the
entire system is for God. But if they cease, then God is Seer over
what they do.

(8:40) And if they turn away, then know that God is your Patron. What
an excellent Patron, and what an excellent Victor.

(8:41) And know that anything you profit, one-fifth shall go to God
and the messenger, and the relatives, and the orphans, and the poor,
and the wayfarer. You will do this if you believe in God and in what
We revealed to Our servant on the Day of the Criterion, the day the
two armies clashed; and God is capable of all things.

(8:42) When you were on the near side, and they were on the far side,
then the supply line became directly beneath you. And if you had
planned for this meeting, you would have disagreed on its timing, but
God was to enforce a command that was already done. So that He would
destroy those to be destroyed with proof, and to let those who will
live be alive with proof; and God is Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(8:43) God showed them to you as being few in your dream, and if He
had shown them to you to be many, then you would have failed and you
would have disputed in the matter, but God saved you.  He is the
Knower of what is in the chests.

(8:44) And He showed them to you when you met as being few to your
eyes, and He made you appear as being fewer to their eyes. That was so
the decree of God would come to be; and to God all matters are
returned.

(8:45) O you who believe, when you meet a force, stand firm and
mention God excessively, that you may succeed.

(8:46) And obey God and His messenger, and do not dispute else you
will fail and your momentum will depart, and be patient. God is with
the patient.

(8:47) And do not be like those who came out from their homes to boast
and to be seen by the people, and they repel others from the path of
God; and God is aware of what they do.

(8:48) And the devil adorned their work for them, and he said: "No
people can defeat you today, and I am by your side." But when the two
forces came together, he turned back on his heels and he said: "I am
innocent from you! I see what you do not see. I fear God, and God is
severe in punishment."

(8:49) The hypocrites and those who have a disease in their hearts
said: "These people have been deceived by their system." But whoever
puts his trust in God, then God is Noble, Wise.

(8:50) And if you could only see as the angels terminate the lives of
those who have rejected, they strike their faces and their backs:
"Taste the punishment of the blazing Fire!"

(8:51) "This is for what your hands have delivered, and God does not
wrong the servants."

(8:52) Like the behavior of the people of Pharaoh, and those before
them; they rejected the signs of God, so God took them by their
sins. God is Strong, severe in punishment.

(8:53) That is because God was not to change any blessing He bestowed
upon a people, unless they change what is in themselves. God is
Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(8:54) Like the behavior of the people of Pharaoh, and those before
them; they denied the signs of their Lord, so We destroyed them by
their sins, and We drowned the people of Pharaoh; all of them were
wicked.

(8:55) The worst creatures to God are those who reject, for they do
not believe.

(8:56) Those of them with whom you made a pledge, then they break
their pledge every time, and they do take heed.

(8:57) So, when you encounter them in battle, set them as an example
for those who will come after them; perhaps they may remember.

(8:58) And if you are being betrayed by a people, then you shall
likewise move against them. God does not love the betrayers.

(8:59) And let not those who have rejected think that they have
escaped; they will never avail themselves.

(8:60) And prepare for them all that you can of might, and from the
steeds of war, that you may instill terror with it towards the enemy
of God and your enemy, and others besides them whom you do not know
but God knows them. And whatever you spend in the cause of God will be
returned to you, and you will not be wronged.

(8:61) And if they seek peace, then you also seek it, and put your
trust in God. He is the Hearer, the Knowledgeable.

(8:62) And if they wish to deceive you, then God is sufficient for
you. He is the One who supported you with His victory and with the
believers.

(8:63) And He made unity between their hearts. And if you had spent
all that is on the earth, you would not have united between their
hearts, but God united between them. He is Noble, Wise.

(8:64) O prophet, God is sufficient for you,and whoever followed you
from the believers.

(8:65) O prophet, urge the believers to fight. If there are twenty of
you who are patient, they will defeat two hundred. And if there are
one hundred of you, they will defeat one thousand from among those who
reject; that is because they are a people who do not understand.

(8:66) Now, God has alleviated for you, for He knows that there is
weakness in you. If there are one hundred of you who are patient, they
will defeat two hundred. And if there are one thousand of you, they
will defeat two thousand with the permission of God. God is with the
patient.

(8:67) And it was not for any prophet to take prisoners until he is
bound by a campaign. You desire the materials of this world, while God
wants the Hereafter for you. God is Noble, Wise.

(8:68) Had it not been previously ordained from God, then a severe
punishment would have afflicted you for what you took.

(8:69) So consume what you have gained, lawful and good, and be aware
of God. God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(8:70) O prophet, say to those prisoners whom you hold: "If God finds
in your hearts any good, He will grant you better than what He took
from you, and He will forgive you. God is Forgiving, Merciful."

(8:71) And if they want to betray you, then they had already betrayed
God before, but He has overpowered them; and God is Knowledgeable,
Wise.

(8:72) Those who have believed and emigrated and strived with their
money and lives in the cause of God, and those who have sheltered and
supported; these are the allies of one another. And those who believed
but did not emigrate, you do not owe them any obligation until they
emigrate. But if they seek your help in the system, then you must
support them, except if it is against a people with whom there is a
covenant between you and them. And God is Seer over what you do.

(8:73) As for those who reject, they are allies to one another. If you
do not do this, then there will be oppression on the earth and great
corruption.

(8:74) And those who have believed and emigrated and strived in the
cause of God, and those who have sheltered and supported, these are
truly the believers. They will have a forgiveness and a generous
provision.

(8:75) And those who believed afterwards and emigrated and strived
with you, then they are from you. And the relatives by birth are also
supportive of one another in the Book of God. God is aware of all
things.














