(9:1) "Therefore, roam the land for four months and know that you will
not escape God, and that God will humiliate the rejecters."

(9:2) And a proclamation from God and His messenger to the people, on
the greater Pilgrimage day: "That God and His messenger are innocent
from the polytheists." If you repent, then it is better for you, and
if you turn away, then know that you will not escape God. And give
news to those who have rejected of a painful retribution.

(9:3) Except for those with whom you had made a pledge from among the
polytheists if they did not reduce anything from it nor did they
support anyone against you; you shall continue the pledge with them
until its expiry. God loves the righteous.

(9:4) So when the restricted months have passed, then you may kill the
polytheists wherever you find them, and take them, and surround them,
and stand against them at every point. If they repent, and they hold
the contact prayer, and they contribute towards purification, then you
shall leave them alone. God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(9:5) And if any of the polytheists seeks your protection, then you
may protect him so that he may hear the words of God, then let him
reach his sanctity. This is because they are a people who do not know.

(9:6) How can the polytheists have a pledge with God and with His
messenger? Except for those with whom you made a pledge near the
Restricted Temple, as long as they are upright with you, then you are
upright with them. God loves the righteous.

(9:7) How is it that when they come upon you they disregard all ties,
either those of kinship or of pledge. They seek to please you with
their words, but their hearts deny, and the majority of them are
wicked.

(9:8) They purchased with the revelations of God a cheap price, so
they repel others from His path. Evil indeed is what they used to do.

(9:9) They do not respect those who are believers, nor a kinship, nor
a pledge. These are the transgressors.

(9:10) If they repent, and they hold the contact prayer, and they
contribute towards purification, then they are your brothers in the
system. We explain the revelations for a people who know.

(9:11) And if they break their oaths after making their pledge, and
they challenge the authority of your system; then you may kill the
leaders of rejection. Their oaths are nothing to them, perhaps they
will then cease.

(9:12) Would you not fight a people who broke their oaths, and
obsessed to expel the messenger, especially while they were the ones
who attacked you first? Are you concerned about them? It is God who is
more deserving that you be concerned with if you are believers.

(9:13) Fight them; perhaps God will punish them by your hands and
humiliate them and grant you victory over them and heal the chests of
the believing people.

(9:14) And to remove the anger from their hearts; God pardons whom he
pleases. God is Knowledgeable, Wise.

(9:15) Or did you think that you would be left alone? God will come to
distinguish those of you who strived and did not take other than God
and His messenger and the believers as helpers. God is Expert in what
you do.

(9:16) It was not for the polytheists to maintain the temples of God
while they bear witness over their own rejection. For these, their
works have fallen, and in the Fire they will abide.

(9:17) Rather, the temples of God are maintained by he who believes in
God and the Last Day, and he upholds the contact prayer, and he
contributes towards purification, and is only concerned by God. It is
these that will be of the guided ones.

(9:18) Have you made the watering of the pilgrim and the maintenance
of the Restricted Temple the same as one who believes in God and the
Last Day and he strives in the cause of God? They are not the same
with God. And God does not guide the wicked people.

(9:19) Those who believed and emigrated and strived in the cause of
God with their money and their lives are in a greater degree with
God. These are the winners.

(9:20) Their Lord gives them good news of a mercy from Him, and
acceptance, and gardens that are for them in which there is permanent
bliss.

(9:21) Abiding therein eternally. With God there is a great reward.

(9:22) O you who believe, do not take your fathers nor brothers as
allies if they prefer rejection to belief. And whoever of you takes
them as such, then these are the wicked.

(9:23) Say: "If your fathers, and your sons, and your brothers, and
your wives, and your kin, and money which you have gathered, and a
trade which you would be concerned over its decline, and homes which
you find pleasing; if these are dearer to you than God and His
messenger and striving in His cause, then wait until God brings His
decision. And God does not guide the wicked people."

(9:24) God has granted you victory in many battlefields. And on the
day of Hunayn when you were pleased with your great numbers but it did
not help you at all, and the land became tight around you for what it
held, then you turned to flee.

(9:25) Then God sent down His tranquility upon His messenger and the
believers, and He sent down soldiers which you did not see, and He
punished those who rejected. Such is the recompense of the rejecters.

(9:26) Then God will accept the repentance of whom He pleases after
that. God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(9:27) O you who believe, the polytheists are impure, so let them not
approach the Restricted Temple after this year of theirs; and if you
fear poverty, then God will enrich you from His blessings if He
wills. God is Knowledgeable, Wise.

(9:28) Fight those who do not believe in God or the Last Day, nor do
they restrict what God and His messenger have restricted, nor do they
uphold the system of truth; from among the people who have been given
the Book; until they pay the reparation, willingly or unwillingly, and
they are subdued.

(9:29) The Jews said: "Ezra is the son of God," and the Nazarenes
said: "The Messiah is the son of God." Such is their utterances with
their mouths, they imitate the sayings of those who rejected before
them. God will fight them. They are deluded from the truth!

(9:30) They have taken their Priests and Monks to be patrons besides
God, and the Messiah, son of Mary, while they were only commanded to
serve One god, there is no god except He, be He glorified against what
they set up.

(9:31) They want to extinguish the light of God with their mouths, but
God refuses such and lets His light continue, even if the rejecters
hate it.

(9:32) He is the One who has sent His messenger with the guidance and
the system of truth, so that it will expose all other systems, even if
the polytheists hate it.

(9:33) O you who believe, many of the Priests and Monks consume the
money of the people in falsehood, and they repel from the path of
God. And those who hoard gold and silver, and do not spend it in the
cause of God, give them news of a painful retribution.

(9:34) On the Day when they will be seared in the fires of Hell, and
their foreheads and sides and backs will be branded with it: "This is
what you have hoarded for yourselves, so taste what you have hoarded!"

(9:35) The count of the months with God is twelve months in the book
of God the day He created the heavens and the earth; four of them are
restricted. This is the correct system; so do not wrong yourselves in
them; and fight the polytheists collectively as they fight you
collectively. And know that God is with the righteous.

(9:36) Know that the use of the additional month causes an increase in
rejection, for it is used by those who have rejected that they may
misguide with it by making it lawful one year, and forbidden one year,
so as to circumvent the count of what God has made restricted; thus
they make lawful what God has made forbidden. Their evil works have
been adorned for them, and God does not guide the rejecting people.

(9:37) O you who believe, what is wrong with you when you are told:
"Mobilize in the cause of God," you become heavy on the earth. Have
you become content with this worldly life over the Hereafter? The
enjoyment of this worldly life compared to the Hereafter is nothing.

(9:38) If you do not mobilize, then He will punish you with a painful
retribution, and He will replace you with another people, and you do
not bother Him in the least. God is capable of all things.

(9:39) If you do not help him, then God has helped him. When those who
rejected expelled him, he was one of only two, and when they were in
the cave, he said to his friend: "Do not grieve, for God is with us."
So God sent down His tranquility over him and He supported him with
soldiers that you did not see, and He made the word of those who
rejected be the lowest, and the word of God be the highest. God is
Noble, Wise.

(9:40) Mobilize in light gear or heavy gear, and strive with your
money and lives in the cause of God. That is best if only you knew.

(9:41) If it were a near gain, or an easy journey, they would have
followed you; but the distance was too much for them. And they will
swear by God: "If we could have, we would have gone with you." They
destroy themselves, and God knows they are liars.

(9:42) God pardons you; why did you give them leave before it became
clear to you who are truthful, and who are lying?

(9:43) Those who believe in God and the Last Day will not ask
leave. They strive with their money and their lives. And God is aware
of the righteous.

(9:44) Those who ask leave are the ones who do not believe in God and
the Last Day, and their hearts are in doubt. In their doubts they are
wavering.

(9:45) And if they had wanted to go then they would have taken all
precautions for it, but God disliked them coming forth, so He made
them lag behind, and they were told: "Stay with those who have
stayed."

(9:46) Had they gone with you they would have added nothing except
disruption, and they would have hurried about seeking to cause for you
an ordeal; and there are some among you who listen to them. God is
aware of the wicked.

(9:47) They wanted to cause an ordeal from before, and they turned
matters upside down for you until the truth came and the command of
God was revealed, while they hated it.

(9:48) And from them are those who say: "Grant me leave, and do not
test me." But it is in the test that they have indeed fallen, and Hell
is surrounding the rejecters.

(9:49) When any good befalls you, it upsets them, and if any bad
befalls you, they say: "We have taken our precaution beforehand," and
they turn away happy.

(9:50) Say: "Nothing will befall us except what God has decreed for
us, He is our Patron." And in God the believers shall put their trust.

(9:51) Say: "You can only expect for us one of two good things; while
we wait for you to be afflicted by God with a retribution from Him, or
by our hands. So wait, we are with you waiting."

(9:52) Say: "Spend willingly or unwillingly, it will not be accepted
from you. You are a wicked people."

(9:53) And what prevented what they would spend from being accepted
from them except that they rejected God and His messenger, and they do
not attend the contact prayer except lazily, and they do not spend
except unwillingly.

(9:54) So do not be impressed by their wealth or children; God only
wishes to punish them with it in the worldly life, and so that their
souls will be taken while they are rejecters.

(9:55) And they swear by God that they are with you, while they are
not with you; but they are a people who are indecisive.

(9:56) If they find a refuge, or cave, or any place to enter, they
will run to it while they are in haste.

(9:57) And from them are those who criticize you regarding the
charities. If they are given from it, they are content; and if they
are not given from it, they become enraged!

(9:58) And if they had only been content with what God and His
messenger had given them, and they had said: "God suffices; God will
give us from His bounty, and His messenger; it is towards God that we
desire."

(9:59) Indeed, the charities are for the poor, and the needy, and
those who work to collect them, and those whose hearts have been
united, and to free the slaves, and those in debt, and in the cause of
God, and the wayfarer. A duty from God, and God is Knowledgeable,
Wise.

(9:60) And from them are those who harm the prophet, and they say: "He
only listens!" Say: "What he listens to is best for you. He believes
in God, and he has trust for the believers, and he is a mercy to those
who believe among you." And those who harm the messenger of God will
have a painful retribution.

(9:61) They swear to you by God in order to please you; while God and
His messenger are more worthy to be pleased if they are believers.

(9:62) Did they not know that whoever is hostile towards God and His
messenger, he will have the fire of Hell, abiding therein. Such is the
greatest humiliation.

(9:63) The hypocrites fear that a chapter will be sent down which will
expose what is in their hearts. Say: "Mock, for God will bring out
what you fear."

(9:64) And if you ask them they say: "We were only jesting and
playing." Say: "In God and His revelations and His messenger you were
mocking?"

(9:65) Do not apologize, for you have rejected after your belief. If
We pardon one group from you, We will punish another group. That is
because they were criminals.

(9:66) The hypocrite males and the hypocrite females, they are to each
other. They order vice and prohibit good, and they close their
hands. They forgot God, so He will forget them; indeed, the hypocrites
are the wicked.

(9:67) God has promised the hypocrite males and the hypocrite females
and the rejecters a Fire in Hell, in it they will abide; it will be
enough for them. And God has cursed them and they will have a lasting
retribution.

(9:68) Like those before them, they were more powerful than you, and
with more wealth and children. They enjoyed their lives, and you
enjoyed your lives as those before you enjoyed their lives; and you
jested as they jested. They had their works crumble in this world and
the next, and they were the losers.

(9:69) Did the news not come to them of those before them, the people
of Noah and 'Aad and Thamud. And the people of Abraham, and the
dwellers of Midyan, and those overthrown. Their messengers came to
them with clarity; it was not God who wronged them, but it was
themselves that they wronged.

(9:70) And the believing males and the believing females, they are
allies to one another. They order good and prohibit vice, and they
hold the contact prayer, and they contribute towards purification and
they obey God and His messenger. God will have mercy on them; God is
Noble, Wise.

(9:71) God has promised the believing males and the believing females
estates with rivers flowing beneath them, abiding therein, and
pleasing homes in gardens of delight. And the acceptance from God is
the most important; such is the great triumph.

(9:72) O prophet, strive against the rejecters and the hypocrites and
be firm against them. Their dwelling is Hell, what a miserable
destiny!

(9:73) They swear by God that they did not say it, while they had said
the word of rejection, and they rejected after they had submitted, and
they were obsessed with what they could not possess; and they could
not find any fault except that God and His messenger had enriched them
from His bounty. If they repent it is better for them, and if they
turn away, then God will punish them severely in this world and the
next. They will not have on the earth any ally or supporter.

(9:74) And from them are those who pledged to God: "If He gives us
from His bounty, then we will believe and we will be among the
upright."

(9:75) So when He gave them from His bounty, they became stingy with
it, and they turned away while they were averse.

(9:76) Thus, hypocrisy follows in their hearts until the Day they meet
Him; that is for breaking what they promised God, and for what they
were lying.

(9:77) Did they not know that God knows their secrets, and their
private counsel, and that God is the Knower of all the unseen?

(9:78) Those who criticize the volunteers among the believers in
charities; that they only have their efforts to give; so they mock
them. God mocks them, and they will have a painful retribution.

(9:79) Whether you seek forgiveness for them, or do not seek
forgiveness for them. If you seek forgiveness for them seventy times,
God will not forgive them. That is because they have rejected God and
His messenger; and God does not guide the wicked people.

(9:80) Those who have remained are happy with their position of
lagging behind the messenger of God, and they disliked striving with
their money and lives in the cause of God; and they say: "Do not
mobilize in the heat." Say: "The fire of Hell is much hotter," if they
could only understand.

(9:81) Let them laugh a little, and cry a lot, a recompense for what
they have earned.

(9:82) So, if God sends you back to a group of them, and they ask your
permission to come with you, then say: "You will not come with me
ever; nor will you fight any enemy with me. You had accepted staying
behind the first time, so stay with those who remain behind."

(9:83) And do not make the contact prayer for any of them who have
died, nor stand at their grave. They have rejected God and His
messenger and died while they were wicked.

(9:84) And do not be impressed by their wealth and their children; God
only wishes to punish them with it in this world, and so their souls
will be taken while they are rejecters.

(9:85) And if a chapter is sent down: "That you shall believe in God
and strive with His messenger," those with wealth and influence ask
your leave and they say: "Let us be with those who remain behind."

(9:86) They were content to stay with those who remained behind, and
it was imprinted on their hearts, for they do not understand.

(9:87) But the messenger and those who believe with him have strived
with their money and their lives. For them will be the good things,
and they are the successful ones.

(9:88) God has prepared for them estates with rivers flowing beneath
them, abiding therein. Such is the great gain.

(9:89) And those who had an excuse from among the Nomads came so leave
would be given to them, and those who denied God and His messenger
simply stayed behind. Those who rejected from them will be inflicted
with a painful retribution.

(9:90) There is no blame to be placed upon the weak, or the sick, or
those who do not find anything to spend on, if they are sincere
towards God and His messenger. There is no argument against the good
doers; and God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(9:91) Nor upon those who came to ride out with you, while you said:
"I do not have any mounts for you;" they turned away while their eyes
were flooded with tears out of sadness, for they could not find
anything to contribute.

(9:92) Indeed, the argument is against those who sought your leave
while they were rich. They accepted to be with those who remained
behind, and God stamps their hearts, for they do not know.

(9:93) They will apologize to you when you return to them, say: "Do
not apologize, we will not believe you, for God has told us of your
news." And God will see your work, as will His messenger, then you
will be returned to Knower of the unseen and the seen, He will inform
you of what you did.

(9:94) They will swear by God to you, when you return to them, so that
you would let them be. So let them be, for they are tainted, and their
destiny is Hell as a recompense for what they earned.

(9:95) They swear to you so that you would accept them. Even if you
accept them, God does not accept the wicked people.

(9:96) The Nomads are the worst in rejection and hypocrisy, and more
likely not to know the boundaries of what God has sent down upon His
messenger. God is Knower, Wise.

(9:97) And from the Nomads are some who look upon what they spend as a
fine, and wait for misfortune upon you. They will have the misfortune
of evil, and God is Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(9:98) And from the Nomads are those who believe in God and the Last
Day, and he looks upon what he spends to make him closer to God, and
the contact prayers of the messenger. It indeed makes them closer. God
will admit them in His mercy; God is Forgiving, Merciful.

(9:99) And those who came early and quickly from among the emigrants
and the supporters, and those who followed them in goodness; God has
accepted them, and they have accepted Him; and He has prepared for
them estates with rivers flowing beneath them, abiding therein
eternally. Such is the great triumph.

(9:100) And from among the Nomads around you are hypocrites, and from
among the people of the city, they persist in hypocrisy. You do not
know them, but We know them. We will punish them twice, then they will
be returned to a great punishment.

(9:101) And others who have acknowledged their sins, they have mixed a
good work with another that was bad. Perhaps God will pardon them. God
is Forgiving, Merciful.

(9:102) Take from their money a charity to purify them and develop
them with it, and make contact with them; for your contact is a
tranquility for them; and God is Hearer, Knowledgeable.

(9:103) Did they not know that it is God who accepts repentance from
His servants, and He takes the charities, and that God is the
Pardoner, Merciful.

(9:104) And say: "Work, and God will see your work and His messenger
and the believers. And you will be sent back to Knower of the unseen
and the seen, and He will inform you of what you did."

(9:105) And others are made to wait for the decision of God; either He
will punish them, or He will pardon them. God is Knowledgeable, Wise.

(9:106) And there are those who have taken a temple to do harm and
cause rejection, and to divide between the believers, and as an
outpost for those who fought God and His messenger before. They will
swear that they only wanted to do good, and God bears witness that
they are liars.

(9:107) Do not stand in it ever. A temple that is founded on
righteousness from the first day is more worthy that you stand in it;
in it are men who love to purify themselves. And God loves the
purified.

(9:108) Is he who founds his building on obtaining righteousness from
God and His acceptance better, or he who founds his building on the
edge of a cliff which is about to crumble, so that it crumbled with
him into the fires of Hell? And God does not guide the wicked people.

(9:109) Their buildings that they built continue to cause doubt in
their hearts, until their hearts are severed. And God is
Knowledgeable, Wise.

(9:110) God has purchased from the believers their very lives and
their wealth, that they will have the Paradise; they fight in the
cause of God so they kill and are killed; a promise that is true upon
Him in the Torah and the Gospel and the Qur'an. And whoever fulfills
this pledge with God, then have good news of the pledge which you are
concluded with. Such is the great triumph.

(9:111) They are the repenters, the worshipers, the thankful, the
devout, the kneeling, the prostrating, the advocates of good and the
prohibiters of vice, and the caretakers of the boundaries of God; and
give good news to the believers.

(9:112) It is not for the prophet and those who believe that they
should seek forgiveness for the polytheists, even if they are
relatives, after it has been made clear to them that they are the
dwellers of Hell.

(9:113) And Abraham seeking forgiveness for his father was only
because of a promise he had made to him. But when it became clear that
he was the enemy of God, he disowned him. Abraham was kind,
compassionate.

(9:114) And it is not for God to misguide a people after He guided
them, until He makes clear to them what they should avoid. God is
aware of all things.

(9:115) To God is the sovereignty of the heavens and the earth, He
brings life and death. You have none besides God as a supporter or
victor.

(9:116) God has pardoned the prophet and the emigrants and the
supporters who had followed him in the darkest hour, even though the
hearts of some of them nearly deviated, but then He pardoned them. He
is towards them Compassionate, Merciful.

(9:117) And also the three who were left behind, until the land, as
vast as it is, became strained to them, and their very souls became
strained, and they thought there was no shelter from God except to
Him. Then He pardoned them that they may repent. God is the Redeemer,
the Merciful.

(9:118) O you who believe, be aware of God and be with the truthful.

(9:119) It is not advisable for the dwellers of the city and those
around them of the Nomads that they should lag behind after the
messenger of God, nor should they yearn for themselves above him. That
is because any thirst that will come to them, or fatigue, or hunger in
the cause of God, or any step that they take which will annoy the
rejecters, or any gain they have over any enemy; it will be recorded
as a good deed for them. God does not waste the reward of the good
doers.

(9:120) And anything small or large they spend, or any valley they
cross, it will be recorded for them. God will recompense them with the
best of what they did.

(9:121) And it is not advisable for the believers to mobilize in their
entirety. For every battalion that marches out, let a group remain to
study the system, and warn their people when they return to them,
perhaps they will be aware.

(9:122) O you who believe, fight those who are around you of the
rejecters, and let them find strength in you; and know that God is
with the righteous.

(9:123) And when a chapter is sent down, some of them say: "Who has
been increased in faith by this?" For those who believe, it has
increased their faith, and they rejoice.

(9:124) As for those who have a disease in their hearts, it only
increased tainting to their taint, and they died as rejecters.

(9:125) Do they not see they are tested every year once or twice? But
then they do not repent, nor do they remember.

(9:126) And when a chapter is sent down, they look at one another:
"Does anyone see you?" Then they turn away. God turns away their
hearts, for they are a people who do not understand.














